Network Intelligence and Computing Ecosystem Lab
N i CE
TWINJEPA: ACTION-PREFERRED PREDICTIVE REP-
RESENTATIONS FOR GOAL-CONDITIONED CONTROL
Feiran You1,
Hongyang Du1,∗
The University of Hong Kong
ABSTRACT
Joint-Embedding Predictive Architectures (JEPAs) have recently emerged as a
promising paradigm for representation learning by predicting future latent states
without reconstructing observations. Recent work has adapted JEPA-style latent
prediction to offline zero-shot control through action-conditioned temporal pre-
diction, enabling representations to capture long-horizon dynamics from fixed be-
havioral data. However, transition-level predictive objectives largely supervise ac-
tions in isolation and provide limited information about which actions are prefer-
able when similar states admit different goal-conditioned outcomes. We introduce
TwinJEPA, a framework for learning action-preferred predictive representations
by augmenting JEPA-based control with offline-mined action-preference supervi-
sion. TwinJEPA identifies approximately matched states across offline trajectories
and constructs preference pairs via goal-conditioned reward relabeling. It then
learns two complementary objectives: reward-gap regression, which preserves the
magnitude of outcome differences, and preference classification, which captures
the relative ordering of alternative actions. Both objectives are used only dur-
ing training and incur no additional inference-time cost. We evaluate TwinJEPA
across long-horizon navigation and continuous-control benchmarks, with both
state-based and pixel-based observations. TwinJEPA yields positive benchmark-
level mean differences across all matched state-based evaluations, while analyses
across domains and observation modalities indicate that larger gains tend to arise
when local action alternatives provide more informative outcome contrasts. The
results suggest that local action-comparison supervision can complement temporal
prediction by encouraging JEPA-based representations to retain both long-horizon
temporal structure and fine-grained distinctions among locally observed actions
for offline zero-shot control.
1
INTRODUCTION
Joint-Embedding Predictive Architectures (JEPAs) have emerged as a promising paradigm for rep-
resentation learning by predicting target representations in latent space rather than reconstructing
detailed observations Assran et al. (2023). By learning through latent prediction, JEPAs encourage
representations to retain structured and predictive information while suppressing observation details
less relevant to the prediction problem Chen et al. (2026). This principle is particularly appeal-
ing for sequential decision-making, where actions naturally condition how the system state evolves
over time. Action-conditioned latent prediction can therefore capture behavioral dynamics and long-
horizon temporal structure from sequential experience. Recent methods such as TD-JEPA instantiate
this idea for offline control through action-conditioned temporal prediction Bagatella et al. (2025).
When applied to decision-making, however, temporal prediction alone does not fully specify what
information a representation should preserve about alternative actions. A transition-wise predictive
objective learns how an observed action relates to its subsequent outcome, but does not explicitly
characterize how it differs from plausible alternatives in a similar local state. This distinction is
important because control depends not only on modeling how observed behaviors evolve over time,
but also on preserving information that separates actions leading to different downstream outcomes.
*Corresponding author.
arXiv:2610.02922v1  [eess.SY]  2 Oct 2026


Existing example temporal-prediction design of TD-JEPA
state 
encoder
task 
encoder
st
st+1
at
predictor
state 
encoder
task 
encoder
 TwinJEPA
Single-action supervision (each 
update sees only one at )
Temporal bootstrap, not local 
comparison
z indexes goals, not action 
prefenrence at s. z conditions fϕ 
fψ π for goals, not which action 
is better at s
Missing: within -state action 
discriminability in  
S
Reward-gap head
Preference head 
in ψ-space
in ϕ-space
TD target in ψ-space
TD target in ϕ-space
Latent TD objective (cross-space)
TD-JEPA Loss 
action-
preference
 supervision
SA’
SB’
 TwinJEPA heads 
are not conditioned on z
TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
temporal consistency
(trajectories)
(action pairs at 
same state)
action 
comparison 
Shared Representation 
Learning
Shared encoders & 
dynamics
(asymmetric, goal-conditioned)
TwinJEPA Loss 
Latent Space Geometry
Insight
Offline pair set Dpair
Offline dataset D
State Bucketing
Action-diverse 
pair mining
Preference pair buffer
Goal-conditioned 
relabeling
A
B
C
controls 
locality 
(approximate 
same state 
neighborhood) 
z1
z2
z3
goal/task latent z
...
Figure 1: Overview and key insight of TwinJEPA. A: A transition-wise temporal-prediction ob-
jective such as TD-JEPA learns goal-conditioned temporal structure from action-conditioned tran-
sitions, but does not explicitly compare alternative actions in similar states. B: TwinJEPA mines
action-diverse transition pairs from local state neighborhoods and derives reward-gap and prefer-
ence targets through goal-conditioned relabeling. C: Temporal prediction and pairwise supervision
jointly train the shared representation to preserve trajectory-level temporal structure while encoding
local distinctions between actions associated with different goal-conditioned outcomes. The auxil-
iary heads are used only during training and introduce no additional inference-time computation.
Two actions can originate from nearly identical states while producing substantially different conse-
quences, yet a standard temporal-prediction objective supervises them independently. As a result, a
representation can capture long-horizon behavioral structure while leaving fine-grained distinctions
among locally available actions only indirectly constrained Ding et al. (2025).
To address this gap, we propose TwinJEPA, a JEPA-based framework for learning action-preferred
predictive representations by augmenting temporal prediction with local action-comparison super-
vision mined from offline behavioral data. TwinJEPA strengthens fine-grained distinctions among
alternative actions in similar local states while preserving the long-horizon structure captured by the
predictive backbone. It groups transitions into approximate state neighborhoods and retains pairs
with sufficiently different actions. Goal-conditioned reward relabeling then identifies an outcome
contrast for each pair, yielding two complementary supervisory signals: reward-gap regression cap-
tures the magnitude of the outcome difference, whereas preference classification captures its order-
ing. These signals are applied through lightweight auxiliary heads, while the temporal-prediction
backbone, policy-learning procedure, and task-inference mechanism remain unchanged. TwinJEPA
therefore introduces comparative information into the learned representation without human prefer-
ence labels, online interaction, or inference-time computation, as illustrated in Figure 1.
TwinJEPA is complementary to several related lines of work. JEPA-based control methods such as
TD-JEPA primarily supervise representations through transition-wise prediction along observed tra-
jectories Bagatella et al. (2025), whereas TwinJEPA adds explicit comparisons between alternative
actions in locally similar states. Offline and zero-shot representation-learning methods likewise seek
reusable control representations, but do not necessarily impose such local action-comparison struc-
ture Rao et al. (2026); Yang et al. (2026). TwinJEPA also differs from preference-based RL: rather
than learning a reward model or directly optimizing a policy from preference feedback, it derives
pairwise targets automatically from offline data and uses them solely as auxiliary representation-
learning supervision. Additional discussion is provided in Appendix A.


We evaluate TwinJEPA under controlled matched protocols across long-horizon navigation and
continuous-control benchmarks, including OGBench AntMaze Park et al. (2025), D4RL Maze2D,
and DMC-based Walker, Cheetah, and Quadruped Tassa et al. (2018). Matched-seed analyses assess
effect consistency and uncertainty. Across state-based evaluations, TwinJEPA yields positive mean
differences on all benchmarks, with substantial variation in magnitude and seed-level consistency.
Task-level analyses show that these gains are structured rather than uniform: AntMaze and Maze2D
exhibit goal-specific changes, Walker and Cheetah improve more on selected control objectives, and
Quadruped shows positive mean differences across all four tasks and five matched seeds. We also
evaluate the same action-preference objective with pixel observations on ExORL to assess its ap-
plicability across modalities. Component ablations show that reward-gap regression and preference
classification contribute differently across domains, with no component or combination uniformly
dominating across settings. Our contributions are summarized as follows:
• We introduce TwinJEPA, a framework for learning action-preferred predictive representa-
tions by augmenting JEPA-based temporal supervision with explicit local action compar-
isons. The resulting objective preserves long-horizon temporal structure while strength-
ening fine-grained distinctions among alternative actions in locally similar states, without
changing the downstream control or inference procedure.
• We develop a fully offline approach for deriving comparative supervision from existing be-
havioral data. TwinJEPA mines action-diverse transitions from local state neighborhoods
and uses goal-conditioned relabeling to construct two distinct targets, reward-gap magni-
tude and action-preference ordering, without human preference annotations or additional
environment interaction. We further characterize these objectives theoretically through
reward-gap decodability and local action ranking on the mined comparison distribution.
• We provide controlled matched-seed evaluations across navigation and continuous-control
benchmarks with both state-based and pixel-based observations. TwinJEPA yields positive
mean differences across all matched state-based evaluations, while task-level, seed-level,
and component analyses reveal substantial cross-domain structure in the resulting effects
and in the contributions of the two comparative signals.
2
PRELIMINARIES
2.1
OFFLINE GOAL-CONDITIONED AND ZERO-SHOT CONTROL
We consider offline goal-conditioned control from a fixed dataset D = {(ot, at, ot+1, δt)}|D|
t=1 ,
where ot and at denote the observation and action, respectively, and δt ∈{0, 1} indicates episode
termination. No additional environment interaction is available during representation or policy learn-
ing. The goal is to learn reusable behaviors conditioned on a target task at deployment Bortkiewicz
et al. (2025). Let h(ot) denote the learned state representation and z a latent goal or task variable,
with goal-conditioned policy πη(at | h(ot), z). In the zero-shot setting, the downstream task is un-
specified during representation learning. Task latents are instead sampled during offline training,
z ∼p(z), at ∼πη(· | h(ot), z), yielding a family of latent-conditioned behaviors Sobal et al.
(2026). The corresponding control objective is
η⋆= arg max
η
Ez∼p(z)
" T
X
t=0
γtrz(ot, at)
#
,
(1)
where rz denotes the reward associated with task latent z.
At deployment, a task representa-
tion z⋆is inferred from task-specific information and supplied to the pretrained policy, at ∼
πη⋆(· | h(ot), z⋆) , without additional policy optimization or online fine-tuning. TwinJEPA focuses
on learning h while retaining the policy and zero-shot task-inference mechanisms of the underlying
temporal-prediction framework and modifying only the supervision used for representation learning.
2.2
JEPA-BASED TEMPORAL PREDICTIVE CONTROL
JEPAs learn representations by predicting future embeddings rather than reconstructing observations
LeCun et al. (2022); Klindt et al. (2026); Destrade et al. (2025). This latent-prediction principle is
attractive for control because it emphasizes predictive structure without reconstructing every pixel-


or state-level detail Wang et al. (2026); Chen et al. (2025); Assran et al. (2023). TD-JEPA ap-
plies this principle to offline goal-conditioned control through asymmetric cross-space temporal
prediction Bagatella et al. (2025). Two encoders produce ut = ϕθϕ(ot),
vt = ψθψ(ot), and
action- and task-conditioned predictors estimate future representations in the opposite latent spaces,
bvt+1 = fϕ(ut, at, z), but+1 = fψ(vt, at, z). Momentum networks provide bootstrapped targets yϕ
t
and yψ
t , yielding
LTD =
bvt+1 −sg(yϕ
t )

2
2 +
but+1 −sg(yψ
t )

2
2 ,
(2)
where sg(·) denotes stop-gradient. TD-JEPA also applies representation regularization Lorth. Since
TwinJEPA leaves both terms unchanged, we define Lbase = LTD + Lorth as the representation-
learning backbone. Regularizer details are deferred to the appendix. Importantly, LTD is transition-
wise. For two transitions (oi, ai, o′
i) and (oj, aj, o′
j) with locally similar observations but different
actions, the objective trains each prediction against its future target, without directly comparing
the goal-conditioned outcomes of ai and aj. Thus, temporal prediction constrains each observed
action individually while leaving the relative structure among local action alternatives only indirectly
specified. TwinJEPA adds this missing comparative signal without replacing the temporal-prediction
backbone. Section 3 describes how local action pairs are mined and how reward-gap and preference
targets are added to the representation objective.
3
METHOD
TwinJEPA augments the temporal-prediction backbone in Section 2.2 with offline-mined local
action-comparison supervision, while leaving the temporal objective, representation regularization,
policy, and task-inference procedure unchanged. It consists of (i) mining and goal-conditioned
relabeling of action-diverse transition pairs and (ii) lightweight auxiliary heads for comparative su-
pervision. Both components are used only during training and add no inference-time cost.
3.1
OFFLINE LOCAL ACTION-COMPARISON MINING
To complement the transition-wise objective in Eq. 2, TwinJEPA constructs a fixed pair buffer Dpair
containing different actions observed in locally similar states. The buffer is constructed once from
the offline dataset before representation learning.
Local state neighborhoods.
Exact state revisits are rare in continuous-control datasets, so we
approximate local state similarity using a fixed matching representation q(¯o). For the state-based
experiments in this paper, q(¯o) = ¯o1:db selects a task-relevant subset of the normalized observation;
for example, db = 2 corresponds to the XY position in AntMaze, whereas the full propriocep-
tive state can be used in continuous-control domains. Given a neighborhood resolution τobs > 0,
transition i is assigned to
bi = round
q(¯oi)
τobs

.
(3)
Transitions sharing a bucket index are treated as approximate local matches. The locality parameter
τobs controls the trade-off between state similarity and pair availability: smaller values yield tighter
neighborhoods but fewer comparisons, while larger values increase pair density at the cost of greater
state variation. We therefore treat the matching representation and neighborhood resolution as pair-
construction hyperparameters; benchmark-specific settings and τobs sensitivity results are reported
in Appendix B.3. Within each neighborhood, we retain action-diverse pairs satisfying ∥ai −aj∥2 ≥
ϵa, where ϵa filters out nearly identical actions. The resulting pairs are locally matched in state while
remaining sufficiently distinct in action.
Goal-conditioned comparative targets.
Consider a retained local pair (i, j) with aA = ai and
aB = aj. We construct comparative targets using the same offline goal-relabeling mechanism avail-
able during representation learning. Specifically, candidate goals are sampled from states contained
in the fixed offline dataset (e.g., through future-state relabeling) and do not include held-out evalu-
ation goals. Thus, the pair construction uses only training-time information and does not introduce
downstream-task or evaluation-goal leakage. For each candidate relabeled goal k, let r(k)
A
and r(k)
B


denote the goal-conditioned rewards associated with the corresponding next states. We select the
relabeled goal that maximizes the reward contrast between the two locally matched transitions,
k⋆= arg max
k
r(k)
A −r(k)
B
 .
(4)
Because all candidate goals use the same goal-conditioned reward definition and numerical scale,
this maximization compares outcome contrasts on a common scale rather than favoring goals with
intrinsically larger reward ranges. It therefore selects the most action-discriminative supervision
available from the local pair. Using k⋆, we define the reward-gap magnitude ∆r =
r(k⋆)
A
−r(k⋆)
B

and the preferred-action label ypref = I
h
r(k⋆)
B
> r(k⋆)
A
i
, where ypref = 0 favors aA and ypref = 1
favors aB. Pairs with negligible reward contrast, ∆r ≤10−6, are removed. Both targets are ob-
tained entirely from goal-relabeled offline transitions, requiring neither human preference annota-
tions, evaluation-task information, nor additional environment interaction.
Local anchor construction.
For each matched pair, we use the first transition as a deterministic
anchor, ¯oanc = ¯oi, and store (¯oanc, aA, aB, ∆r, ypref) ∈Dpair. As the two transitions satisfy the
local matching criterion, ¯oi and ¯oj provide nearby state contexts for comparing aA and aB. Using
a single anchor yields a consistent representation of each local action comparison. Pair construction
continues until the budget Npair is reached, after which Dpair is fixed for representation learning.
Extension to pixel observations.
The same comparative supervision extends to pixel-based Ex-
ORL experiments. We construct pairs from cached visual observations using the modality-specific
procedure described in Appendix H, while retaining the same reward-gap and preference targets.
This separates the comparative learning objective from the particular matching representation used
to identify local transition pairs.
3.2
PAIRWISE COMPARATIVE SUPERVISION
Given a sample (¯oanc, aA, aB, ∆r, ypref) ∼Dpair, the anchor observation is encoded using the
same state encoder as the temporal-prediction backbone, uanc = ϕθϕ (¯oanc) . TwinJEPA applies
two lightweight auxiliary heads to the shared representation.
The reward-gap head is condi-
tioned only on the anchor representation and predicts the magnitude of the local outcome contrast,
c
∆r = hgap (uanc) . This state-only objective encourages the representation to retain information
predictive of outcome-contrast magnitude under the mined comparison distribution, rather than di-
rectly modeling a particular action pair. In contrast, the preference head explicitly conditions on
both candidate actions together with the anchor representation, bp = hpref (uanc, aA, aB) , where
bp ∈(0, 1) denotes the predicted probability that aB is preferred over aA. The resulting pairwise
objective is
Lpair = αgap

c
∆r −∆r
2
+ αpref BCE (bp, ypref) .
(5)
The two terms capture complementary aspects of the same mined local comparison. Reward-gap
regression provides magnitude-sensitive supervision by encouraging the representation to preserve
information predictive of local outcome contrasts, whereas preference classification provides pair-
specific ordering supervision over (aA, aB). We do not assume that either signal, or their combina-
tion, dominates across all environments; their relative utility is evaluated in Section 4.4. The task
latent z is not supplied to either auxiliary head. Goal-dependent information enters only through
the relabeled targets ∆r and ypref. This prevents trivial conditioning on the task representation: the
reward-gap objective promotes state information predictive of local contrast magnitude, while the
preference objective combines this state context with the candidate actions to learn their relative
ordering. The original temporal predictors and policy remain conditioned on z as in TD-JEPA.
3.3
JOINT REPRESENTATION LEARNING
Let Lbase = LTD + Lorth denote the unchanged TD-JEPA representation objective introduced in
Section 2.2. TwinJEPA optimizes Lrepr = Lbase + λLpair, where λ controls the contribution of
comparative supervision. Setting λ = 0 exactly recovers the matched temporal-prediction baseline


under the same architecture, offline data, optimizer, policy learner, and training budget. At each
training iteration, a transition minibatch is independently sampled from D and a comparison mini-
batch from Dpair. The encoders and temporal predictors are updated through Lbase, while the shared
encoder additionally receives gradients from Lpair. The auxiliary heads are optimized only through
their corresponding pairwise targets. The Flow Behavior Cloning (FlowBC) actor Park et al. (2026)
is trained using the same policy-learning procedure as the baseline, with the state representation
detached during the actor update. Target encoders and predictors are updated using the same ex-
ponential moving average procedure as TD-JEPA. The complete state-based training procedure is
provided in Appendix B.1 (Algorithm 1).
3.4
INFERENCE AND COMPUTATIONAL OVERHEAD
TwinJEPA changes only the representation-learning objective; downstream control and test-time
inference remain identical to the matched TD-JEPA baseline. The learned representation is used
by the FlowBC actor as at = πη
 ϕθϕ(¯ot), z

. For held-out goals, the task latent z is inferred
using the same procedure as in TD-JEPA, enabling zero-shot control without policy optimization or
online fine-tuning. The mined comparison pairs and auxiliary heads are required only during offline
training and are not used at inference time. Consequently, TwinJEPA incurs additional offline pair-
construction and training cost, while preserving the baseline inference-time computational cost.
4
EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
4.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP AND STATISTICAL PROTOCOL
Benchmarks.
We evaluate TwinJEPA on OGBench AntMaze, D4RL Maze2D, and DMC-based
Walker, Cheetah, and Quadruped, covering navigation and continuous-control settings with diverse
reward structures, embodiments, and task geometries. All methods are trained from fixed offline
replay buffers. We use TD-JEPA as the matched baseline, reproduced from the authors’ implemen-
tation Bagatella et al. (2025). Within each matched comparison, TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA share the
architecture, offline data, optimization schedule, training budget, random seeds, task-inference pro-
cedure, and evaluation protocol, with TwinJEPA adding only the offline-mined action-comparison
objective. Table 2 additionally reports published results for Laplacian, ICVF, HILP, FB, RLDP,
BYOL, and BYOL-γ where available, providing broader comparison with existing methods.
Evaluation and statistical protocol.
We use benchmark-specific protocols aligned with TD-JEPA
evaluations and retain a shared auxiliary configuration across domains. AntMaze and Cheetah use
ten matched seeds, while Maze2D, Walker, and Quadruped use five; training budgets, task-inference
settings, local matching parameters, and sensitivity analyses are reported in the appendix. For
matched seeds, we analyze paired differences di = RTwin
i
−RTD
i
, where Ri denotes either success
rate or mean task return. We report the mean difference ¯d, percentile 95% confidence intervals from
20,000 paired bootstrap resamples, exact two-sided sign-flip permutation p-values, and the number
of seeds with di > 0. For small n, the exact permutation distribution is discrete, so confidence
interval exclusion and p < 0.05 need not coincide.
Evaluation questions.
Our experiments address three questions.
RQ1: Does TwinJEPA im-
prove the matched TD-JEPA baseline under controlled state-based evaluations across navigation
and continuous-control domains? RQ2: How are the resulting effects distributed across domains,
downstream tasks, and random seeds? RQ3: How do reward-gap regression and preference classi-
fication contribute to these effects across domains?
4.2
MATCHED STATE-BASED EVALUATION (RQ1)
To address RQ1, we compare TwinJEPA with the matched TD-JEPA baseline under paper-aligned
protocols across AntMaze, Maze2D, Walker, Cheetah, and Quadruped. Within each comparison,
the two methods share the architecture, offline data, optimization schedule, training budget, random
seeds, task-inference procedure, and evaluation protocol, differing only in the additional action-
comparison objective. TwinJEPA yields positive mean differences in every state-based evaluation
reported in Table 1. On AntMaze, all four domain-level means increase, producing an AntMaze-4


Table 1: Matched-seed comparison of TwinJEPA and TD-JEPA. The 95% CIs are based on 20,000
paired bootstrap resamples, and p2s denotes the exact two-sided sign-flip permutation p-value. Succ.
(pp) denotes success rate in percentage points; returns are reported on their native scales.
Setting
Metric
n
TD-JEPA TwinJEPA
¯d
95% CI
p2s
di > 0
AntMaze medium-navigate Succ. (pp) 10
68.8
73.2
+4.4
[−7.4, +16.4]
0.518
5/10
AntMaze large-navigate
Succ. (pp) 10
42.2
43.0
+0.8
[−7.0, +8.4]
0.883
5/10
AntMaze medium-stitch
Succ. (pp) 10
51.4
52.0
+0.6
[−13.6, +13.6]
0.959
6/10
AntMaze large-stitch
Succ. (pp) 10
37.8
41.2
+3.4
[−3.0, +8.6]
0.336
7/10
AntMaze-4 seed mean
Succ. (pp) 10
50.1
52.4
+2.3
[−2.8, +7.8]
0.447
5/10
Maze2D-medium
Succ. (pp)
5
9.2
14.4
+5.2
[+1.6, +10.0]
0.125
4/5
DMC Walker, Fixed-HP
Return
5
774.3
782.7
+8.4
[−9.9, +26.6]
0.438
3/5
Cheetah, state
Return
10
638.0
671.7
+33.7
[−1.0, +68.8]
0.104
7/10
Quadruped, τobs = 1.0
Return
5
559.4
599.8
+40.4 [+20.6, +60.3] 0.0625
5/5
−20
0
20
Paired difference in success (pp)
AntMaze medium-navigate
AntMaze large-navigate
AntMaze medium-stitch
AntMaze large-stitch
AntMaze-4 seed mean
Maze2D-medium *
(a)
Success-rate tasks
5/10
5/10
6/10
7/10
5/10
4/5
Positive
seeds
−50
0
50
100
Paired difference in return
Walker
Cheetah
Quadruped *
(b)
Return-based tasks
3/5
7/10
5/5
Positive
seeds
Matched-seed di (10-seed)
Matched-seed di (5-seed)*
95% CI
Mean d
Figure 2: Matched-seed effects across paper-aligned evaluations. (a) Success-rate differences for the
four AntMaze domains, the AntMaze-4 aggregate, and Maze2D-medium. (b) Return differences for
Walker, Cheetah, and Quadruped. Small markers show paired differences, diamonds their means,
and horizontal bars paired-bootstrap 95% confidence intervals. The dashed line marks zero; right-
hand annotations give the number of positive seeds.
change from 50.1% to 52.4% ( ¯d = +2.3 pp). Maze2D increases from 9.2% to 14.4% ( ¯d = +5.2
pp). Among the continuous-control domains, Walker increases from 774.3 to 782.7 ( ¯d = +8.4),
Cheetah from 638.0 to 671.7 ( ¯d = +33.7), and Quadruped from 559.4 to 599.8 ( ¯d = +40.4).
The magnitude and uncertainty of these effects vary across benchmarks. Quadruped shows the
strongest matched result, with all five paired differences positive and a paired-bootstrap 95% confi-
dence interval of [+20.6, +60.3]. Cheetah also exhibits a substantial positive mean difference, while
the AntMaze and Walker effects are smaller and more variable across seeds. These results establish
a consistent positive direction at the level of benchmark means under the shared matched protocol;
RQ2 examines how these effects decompose across individual tasks and seeds.
4.3
EFFECT STRUCTURE ACROSS DOMAINS AND TASKS (RQ2)
RQ1 establishes positive benchmark-level mean differences under the matched state-based proto-
cols. RQ2 examines how these effects vary across tasks and random seeds. Figure 3 shows that
the gains are generally structured rather than uniform: improvements are often concentrated on a
subset of tasks, while others change little or decrease. The navigation domains exhibit strongly
goal-dependent effects. Across AntMaze, positive and negative task-level differences coexist, with
the largest changes concentrated on particular goals. Maze2D shows a similar pattern: its aggregate
gain comes entirely from goals on which the baseline already achieves nonzero success, while the
remaining goals are unchanged. This suggests that local action-comparison supervision is most ef-
fective when the mined comparisons capture distinctions relevant to the evaluated goal. Continuous-
control domains show a related but distinct structure. Walker and Cheetah concentrate their larger


Table 2: Published benchmark context on evaluations overlapping with TwinJEPA. Panel A reports
zero-shot success (%) on the four OGBench AntMaze domains. Panel B reports state- and pixel-
based returns on Walker, Cheetah, and Quadruped. Published rows provide cross-paper context; the
final two rows use our paper-aligned protocols.
A. OGBench AntMaze
Method
mn
ln
ms
ls
Avg.
Laplacian
50.0 21.6 21.4 11.8 26.2
ICVF∗
79.8 58.4 39.0 13.2 47.6
HILP
83.6 52.6 50.6 12.2 49.8
FB
73.0 36.8 70.4 49.8 57.5
RLDP
74.6 36.4 58.4 19.6 47.3
BYOL∗
58.4 26.6 60.6 25.8 42.9
BYOL-γ∗
51.4 21.8 45.6 20.2 34.8
TD-JEPApub
70.4 57.2 61.6 40.6 57.4
TD-JEPAmatch 68.8 42.2 51.4 37.8 50.1
TwinJEPA
73.2 43.0 52.0 41.2 52.4
B. ExORL / DMC
Walker
Cheetah
Quadruped
Method
State RGB State RGB State RGB
HILP
–
422.8
–
333.0
–
513.9
FB
–
324.4
–
622.4
–
475.4
RLDP
–
576.1
–
605.3
–
551.1
BYOL-γ∗
–
648.3
–
679.8
–
570.0
TD-JEPApub
785.2 738.9 688.7 706.0 691.4 626.7
TD-JEPAmatch 774.3 716.6 638.0 694.8 559.4 645.0
TwinJEPA
782.7 741.8 671.7 686.4 599.8 650.7
T1
T2
T3
T4
T5
Avg.
AntMaze-mn
AntMaze-ln
AntMaze-ms
AntMaze-ls
Maze2D
-2
+6
+17
-3
+4
+4.4
+5
-14
+4
-7
+16
+0.8
+13
-2
-18
-3
+13
+0.6
+11
-3
+4
-2
+7
+3.4
+0
+0
+12
+6
+8
+5.2
(a) Navigation — Δ success (pp)
stand
run
walk
spin
Avg.
Walker
+20.6
+18.3
-4.8
-0.7
+8.4
(b) Continuous control — Δ return
walk
w-bwd
run
r-bwd
Avg.
Cheetah
+70.7
+0.1
+56.7
+7.2
+33.7
stand
walk
run
jump
Avg.
Quadruped
+49.6
+72.1
+24.8
+15.2
+40.4
−20
0
20
(a) Δ success (pp)
−80
0
80
(b) Δ return
Figure 3: Task-level matched differences across navigation and continuous-control benchmarks.
Panel (a) reports TwinJEPA–TD-JEPA zero-shot success differences (percentage points) for
AntMaze and Maze2D. Panel (b) reports return differences for Walker, Cheetah, and Quadruped.
The final column gives the corresponding domain mean.
gains on selected locomotion objectives, while other tasks change little. Figure 4 shows that these
larger effects often occur where the matched baseline retains substantial performance headroom.
Quadruped, however, improves across all four tasks despite substantial variation in baseline return,
indicating that headroom alone does not explain the observed effects. The benefit of comparative
supervision therefore appears to depend on how the mined comparison distribution aligns with the
downstream objective. Seed-level results show a similar contrast (Figure 2).
AntMaze and Walker exhibit substantial run-to-run variation, Cheetah shows a more consistently
positive tendency, Maze2D is positive on most matched seeds, and Quadruped is positive on all
five matched runs. Thus, the observed effects range from localized task-specific gains to broader
patterns that persist across both tasks and seeds. Overall, the effect of local action-comparison
supervision is task- and data-dependent rather than a uniform domain-wide shift. Reward structure,
offline coverage, local action diversity, and the informativeness of the mined comparisons may all
contribute to this heterogeneity. This is consistent with TwinJEPA as an auxiliary representation-
learning objective: downstream gains depend on whether the distinctions encoded by the mined
comparison distribution are useful for the evaluated task.


Stand
Run
Walk
Spin
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Mean episode return
(a)
DMC Walker (Fixed-HP)
Δ=+20.6
Δ=+18.3
Δ=-4.8
Δ=-0.7
Headroom (Twin gains here)
Near ceiling (little room)
Overall: 774.3→782.7 (Δ=+8.4)
headroom mean Δ (stand, run) =+19.5
walk
run
walk-bwd
run-bwd
0
200
400
600
800
1000
(b)
ExORL / DMC Cheetah (Fixed-HP)
Δ=+70.7
Δ=+56.7
Δ=+0.1
Δ=+7.2
Forward locomotion
Backward tasks
Overall: 638.0→671.7 (Δ=+33.7)
Stand
Walk
Run
Jump
0
200
400
600
800
1000
(c)
ExORL / DMC Quadruped (Fixed-HP)
Δ=+49.6
Δ=+72.1
Δ=+24.8
Δ=+15.2
All four tasks improve
Overall: 559.4→599.8 (Δ=+40.4)
5/5 matched seeds positive
Official
TwinJEPA
Ceiling ≈ 1000
Near-ceiling reference (≥900)
Figure 4: Task-level absolute returns on the three continuous-control domains. Bars compare Offi-
cial TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA under the paper-aligned Fixed-HP protocols, with annotations showing
∆= TwinJEPA −TD-JEPA. The shaded region marks near-ceiling performance.
4.4
COMPONENT CONTRIBUTIONS ACROSS DOMAINS (RQ3)
To address RQ3, we ablate reward-gap regression and preference classification to examine how
the two comparative signals contribute across domains.
Reward-gap regression supervises the
magnitude of the selected outcome contrast, whereas preference classification supervises its or-
dering. Their empirical contributions are not interchangeable and vary across evaluation settings.
On AntMaze, the component ordering differs across domains. Preference-only reaches 77.0% on
medium-navigate, exceeding the 73.2% full-objective result, whereas gap-only reaches 57.4% on
medium-stitch, compared with 52.0% for the full objective. Thus, neither component is consistently
dominant across the two AntMaze settings. Cheetah exhibits a different pattern. On the matched
five-seed ablation subset, the full objective reaches 671.4, while gap-only and preference-only reach
654.5 and 629.8, respectively. Here, gap-only retains more of the full-objective improvement, while
the combined objective achieves the highest mean return among the evaluated variants.
Quadruped shows the largest separation between the full and isolated objectives. Full TwinJEPA
reaches 599.8, whereas gap-only and preference-only obtain 554.4 and 548.4, respectively, both
below the matched TD-JEPA baseline of 559.4. In this setting, neither isolated objective retains the
improvement observed with the full configuration. The ablations therefore reveal no fixed ordering
between reward-gap and preference supervision across domains. Their combination is strongest in
Quadruped, while isolated components can be more competitive on AntMaze and Cheetah. We
retain (λ, αgap, αpref) = (0.1, 1.0, 0.5) as a shared cross-domain configuration rather than selecting
domain-specific component weights. Additional component, λ-sensitivity, uncertainty, and seed-
level results are reported in Appendix B.2 and the corresponding benchmark-specific sections.
5
CONCLUSION
We introduced TwinJEPA, a JEPA-based framework for learning action-preferred predictive rep-
resentations for zero-shot goal-conditioned control. TwinJEPA augments transition-level temporal
prediction with offline-mined local action-comparison supervision, constructing action-diverse pairs
from fixed offline data and using goal-conditioned reward relabeling to derive reward-gap magnitude
and preference-ordering targets. These objectives encourage the learned representation to preserve
action-discriminative information not explicitly captured by transition-wise latent prediction, while
introducing no additional inference-time computation. Through matched-seed evaluations across
long-horizon navigation and continuous-control benchmarks, we find that the effect of comparative
supervision is positive on average in several paper-aligned settings but varies substantially across
domains and tasks. The strongest improvements appear in environments where the mined compar-
isons provide informative distinctions between alternative actions, whereas other settings exhibit
larger uncertainty across seeds. Further analyses show that reward-gap regression and preference
classification provide distinct and domain-dependent sources of supervision, rather than universally
interchangeable improvements. These findings suggest that temporal prediction and action compar-
ison capture complementary aspects of control-relevant representation learning. While JEPA-style


objectives model how behaviors evolve over time, offline preference supervision provides additional
information about which actions are more suitable under a given goal.
AI USE STATEMENT
Generative AI tools were used only for language editing and presentation, including improving
grammar, clarity, concision, and readability. They were not used to develop the research methodol-
ogy, formulate mathematical claims, implement the proposed method, generate or process experi-
mental data, conduct experiments, or interpret the results. All AI-assisted edits were reviewed and
verified by the authors, who take full responsibility for the final content of the paper.
REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
We provide the methodological, implementation, and evaluation details needed to reproduce the
reported results in the main paper and appendix. The main text specifies the TwinJEPA objective,
local action-comparison mining procedure, goal-conditioned relabeling strategy, auxiliary losses,
joint representation-learning objective, and deployment procedure. It also defines the matched-seed
evaluation protocol, including paired differences, paired-bootstrap confidence intervals, and exact
two-sided sign-flip permutation tests.
Appendix B.1 provides the complete state-based training procedure (Algorithm 1), shared hy-
perparameters, hardware configurations, training budgets, and evaluation environments.
Ap-
pendix B.3 reports sensitivity to the local observation-matching tolerance used during pair con-
struction. Benchmark-specific sections document the corresponding datasets, matching parameters,
training horizons, seed configurations, task-level evaluations, and implementation choices. Ap-
pendix C.2 further verifies the reproduction of the Official TD-JEPA baseline used for the matched
AntMaze comparison.
Appendices C–H provide the underlying task-level and seed-level results, component ablations,
auxiliary-weight and hyperparameter sensitivity analyses, and benchmark-specific numerical break-
downs. Appendix H additionally specifies the pixel-based ExORL protocol, including the observa-
tion construction, encoder setting, training configuration, and matched-seed evaluation procedure.
Unless otherwise stated, each matched comparison uses the same backbone architecture, offline data,
optimization schedule, training budget, random seeds, task-inference procedure, and evaluation pro-
tocol for Official TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA, with the action-comparison objective as the systematic
difference between the two methods. Finally, Appendix I states the assumptions and provides the
propositions and proofs underlying the theoretical analysis.
REFERENCES
Mahmoud Assran, Quentin Duval, Ishan Misra, Piotr Bojanowski, Pascal Vincent, Michael Rabbat,
Yann LeCun, and Nicolas Ballas. Self-supervised learning from images with a joint-embedding
predictive architecture.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, pp. 15619–15629, 2023.
Marco Bagatella, Matteo Pirotta, Ahmed Touati, Alessandro Lazaric, and Andrea Tirinzoni. Td-
jepa: Latent-predictive representations for zero-shot reinforcement learning.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2510.00739, 2025.
Michał Bortkiewicz, Władysław Pałucki, Vivek Myers, Tadeusz Dziarmaga, Tomasz Arczewski,
Łukasz Kuci´nski, and Benjamin Eysenbach. Accelerating goal-conditioned reinforcement learn-
ing algorithms and research. In International Conference on Learning Representations, volume
2025, pp. 15732–15754, 2025.
Delong Chen, Mustafa Shukor, Theo Moutakanni, Willy Chung, Jade Yu, Tejaswi Kasarla, Yejin
Bang, Allen Bolourchi, Yann LeCun, and Pascale Fung. Vl-jepa: Joint embedding predictive
architecture for vision-language. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.10942, 2025.
Shih-Fang Chen, Jun-Cheng Chen, I-Hong Jhuo, and Yen-Yu Lin. Got-jepa: Generic object track-
ing with model adaptation and occlusion handling using joint-embedding predictive architecture.
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 2026.


Matthieu Destrade, Oumayma Bounou, Quentin Le Lidec, Jean Ponce, and Yann LeCun. Value-
guided action planning with jepa world models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.00844, 2025.
Jingtao Ding, Yunke Zhang, Yu Shang, Yuheng Zhang, Zefang Zong, Jie Feng, Yuan Yuan,
Hongyuan Su, Nian Li, Nicholas Sukiennik, et al. Understanding world or predicting future?
a comprehensive survey of world models. ACM Computing Surveys, 58(3):1–38, 2025.
Minyoung Hwang, Gunmin Lee, Hogun Kee, Chan Woo Kim, Kyungjae Lee, and Songhwai Oh. Se-
quential preference ranking for efficient reinforcement learning from human feedback. Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:49088–49099, 2023.
Pranaya Jajoo, Harshit Sikchi, Siddhant Agarwal, Amy Zhang, Scott Niekum, and Martha White.
Regularized latent dynamics prediction is a strong baseline for behavioral foundation models. In
Workshop on Reinforcement Learning Beyond Rewards@ Reinforcement Learning Conference
2025, 2025.
David Klindt, Yann LeCun, and Randall Balestriero. When does lejepa learn a world model? arXiv
preprint arXiv:2605.26379, 2026.
Yann LeCun et al. A path towards autonomous machine intelligence version 0.9. 2, 2022-06-27.
Open Review, 62(1):1–62, 2022.
Joongkyu Lee, Seouh-won Yi, and Min-hwan Oh. Preference-based reinforcement learning beyond
pairwise comparisons: Benefits of multiple options. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 38:151113–151168, 2026.
Seohong Park, Tobias Kreiman, and Sergey Levine. Foundation policies with hilbert representations.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.15567, 2024.
Seohong Park, Kevin Frans, Benjamin Eysenbach, and Sergey Levine. Ogbench: Benchmarking
offline goal-conditioned rl. In International Conference on Learning Representations, volume
2025, pp. 94937–94982, 2025.
Seohong Park, Kevin Frans, Deepinder Mann, Benjamin Eysenbach, Aviral Kumar, and Sergey
Levine. Horizon reduction makes rl scalable. Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems, 38:8350–8389, 2026.
Pratyaksh Rao, Wancong Zhang, Randall Balestriero, Yann LeCun, and Giuseppe Loianno. Sky-
jepa: Learning long-horizon world models for zero-shot sim-to-real control of quadrotors. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2606.23444, 2026.
Uladzislau Sobal, Wancong Zhang, Kyunghyun Cho, Randall Balestriero, Tim GJ Rudner, and Yann
LeCun. Learning from reward-free offline data: A case for planning with latent dynamics models.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 38:43905–43941, 2026.
Yuval Tassa, Yotam Doron, Alistair Muldal, Tom Erez, Yazhe Li, Diego de Las Casas, David Bud-
den, Abbas Abdolmaleki, Josh Merel, Andrew Lefrancq, et al. Deepmind control suite. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1801.00690, 2018.
Ahmed Touati and Yann Ollivier. Learning one representation to optimize all rewards. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 34:13–23, 2021.
Aleksandar Vujinovi´c and Aleksandar Kovaˇcevi´c. Act-jepa: Novel joint-embedding predictive ar-
chitecture for efficient policy representation learning. IEEE Access, 2026.
Xin Wang, Tongtong Feng, Huaping Liu, and Wenwu Zhu. Embodied ai. Autonomous Embodied
AI: Towards Self-evolving Intelligence, pp. 3–88, 2026.
Jun-Jie Yang, Chia-Heng Hsu, Kui-Yuan Chen, and Ping-Chun Hsieh. From reward-free represen-
tations to preferences: Rethinking offline preference-based reinforcement learning. In Forty-third
International Conference on Machine Learning, 2026.
Guoxi Zhang and Hisashi Kashima. Learning state importance for preference-based reinforcement
learning. Machine learning, 113(4):1885–1901, 2024.


Appendix
Appendix Overview
A
Extended Related Work
Page
B
Additional Experimental Details
Page
B.1
Implementation Details
Page
B.2
Cross-Domain Auxiliary-Objective Summary
Page
B.3
Sensitivity to Local Matching Tolerance
Page
C
AntMaze Extended Evaluation
Page
C.1
Task-Level and Domain-Level Summary
Page
C.2
Official TD-JEPA Reproduction Check
Page
C.3
Additional Ablation Results
Page
C.4
Learning Dynamics on Medium-Navigate
Page
D
DMC Walker Extended Evaluation
Page
D.1
Hyperparameter-Grid Evaluation
Page
E
Cheetah Offline Control on ExORL
Page
E.1
Complete Task-Level Results
Page
E.2
Auxiliary-Objective and Weight Sensitivity
Page
F
Quadruped Extended Evaluation
Page
F.1
Seed-Level Results
Page
F.2
Task-Level Numerical Breakdown
Page
F.3
Additional Auxiliary-Objective Sensitivity
Page
G
D4RL Maze2D Extended Evaluation
Page
H
Pixel-Based ExORL Evaluation
Page
I
Theoretical Properties of TwinJEPA
Page
J
Summary of Additional Results
Page
A
EXTENDED RELATED WORK
Representation learning for reinforcement learning.
A broad line of work studies how learned
representations can improve reinforcement learning by preserving task-relevant structure while dis-
carding nuisance variation. Existing approaches include contrastive objectives, predictive repre-
sentation learning, prototype-based methods, and representation objectives derived from behavioral
or dynamical equivalence. In offline and zero-shot RL, methods such as HILP Park et al. (2024),
FB Touati & Ollivier (2021), and regularized latent-dynamics approaches Jajoo et al. (2025) learn
reusable representations from fixed behavioral data.
TwinJEPA is complementary to these ap-
proaches. Rather than replacing the underlying representation objective, it augments a temporal
predictive representation with supervision obtained by comparing different actions observed in lo-
cally similar states.
JEPA and predictive representations for control.
Joint-Embedding Predictive Architectures
learn representations by predicting future latent variables instead of reconstructing observations
LeCun et al. (2022); Assran et al. (2023); Klindt et al. (2026). Recent extensions have explored
JEPA-style prediction for multimodal and decision-making settings Chen et al. (2025); Destrade
et al. (2025); Vujinovi´c & Kovaˇcevi´c (2026), while TD-JEPA adapts latent temporal prediction to
zero-shot offline control Bagatella et al. (2025). These methods primarily supervise representations
through predictive consistency along observed trajectories. TwinJEPA addresses a different axis
of representation learning by explicitly introducing comparisons between alternative actions in local
state neighborhoods. The proposed objective therefore complements temporal prediction rather than
replacing the JEPA backbone.
Preference and pairwise supervision.
Preference-based reinforcement learning typically learns
from pairwise comparisons between trajectories, actions, or outcomes, often obtained from human


feedback or an external preference oracle Lee et al. (2026); Zhang & Kashima (2024); Hwang et al.
(2023). TwinJEPA differs in both the source and the role of the preference signal. It does not re-
quire human-provided preferences or additional environment interaction. Instead, pairwise labels
and reward-gap targets are generated automatically from locally matched transitions through goal-
conditioned reward relabeling. Moreover, these comparisons are used as auxiliary supervision for
representation learning rather than as a standalone reward model or policy optimization objective.
This distinction allows TwinJEPA to inject action-discriminative information into a temporal pre-
dictive representation while retaining the original offline control pipeline.
B
ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS
This appendix provides additional experimental analyses that complement the main results. Specif-
ically, we report implementation details, environment descriptions, extended task-level evaluations,
auxiliary-objective analyses, hyperparameter sensitivity studies, and additional cross-domain eval-
uations. Unless otherwise stated, official TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA use identical backbone archi-
tectures, optimization hyperparameters, training budgets, random seeds, and evaluation protocols
within each matched comparison.
The primary difference between the two methods is that TwinJEPA augments the TD-JEPA objec-
tive with offline-mined action-preference supervision. Specifically, locally matched transition pairs
are constructed from the fixed offline dataset, and goal-conditioned reward relabeling provides two
auxiliary signals: reward-gap regression and preference classification. These auxiliary objectives are
applied only during representation learning and introduce no additional inference-time computation.
B.1
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
We report task- and domain-level results on AntMaze, auxiliary-objective ablations on AntMaze
and ExORL Cheetah, Fixed-HP evaluations on DMC Walker, ExORL Cheetah, ExORL/DMC
Quadruped, and D4RL Maze2D, as well as additional pixel-based evaluations on ExORL domains.
Full TwinJEPA with λ = 0.1 serves as the primary matched configuration. Unless stated otherwise,
all comparisons use identical training and evaluation protocols, and results are reported as mean ±
standard deviation over matched seeds. Task-level or seed-level breakdowns are provided when they
reveal information beyond aggregate performance.
The shared value of λ is maintained across domains to evaluate the transferability of the proposed
supervision under a fixed protocol rather than selecting benchmark-specific optimal weights after
observing downstream performance. Additional λ sweeps are therefore treated as sensitivity analy-
ses and are not used to determine the primary reported configurations.
Experiments on DMC Walker and D4RL Maze2D were conducted using NVIDIA GeForce RTX
4090 GPUs, whereas AntMaze, ExORL Cheetah, and ExORL/DMC Quadruped experiments were
conducted using NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5090 GPUs.
The GPU model affects computational
throughput only; within each reported comparison, official TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA were trained
under identical hardware settings, software environments, optimization schedules, and evaluation
protocols. No benchmark-specific model or loss-weight retuning was performed, except for explic-
itly reported domain-level parameters such as the local observation matching tolerance used during
offline preference-pair construction.
EVALUATION ENVIRONMENTS
We evaluate TwinJEPA across five environment families that cover complementary offline con-
trol regimes, including long-horizon sparse-reward navigation, dense continuous locomotion, high-
dimensional posture regulation, and simplified geometric goal reaching.
• OGBench AntMaze.
OGBench AntMaze, represented by tasks such as antmaze-medium-navigate, is a
long-horizon goal-reaching domain in which a quadrupedal ant must traverse a continu-
ous maze to reach designated goals. It combines sparse task feedback, high-dimensional


Algorithm 1 TwinJEPA: Offline Pair Mining and Joint Training
Require: Offline dataset D, matching function q, resolution τobs, action threshold ϵa, pair budget
Npair, training steps T
Ensure: Encoders ϕ, ψ and policy π
1: Phase I: construct local action-comparison pairs
2: Assign each transition bi ←round(q(¯oi)/τobs)
3: Initialize Dpair ←∅
4: for candidate pairs (i, j) satisfying bi = bj do
5:
if ∥ai −aj∥2 ≥ϵa then
6:
Relabel the two successor states under the available goals
7:
k⋆←arg maxk |r(k)
i
−r(k)
j
|
8:
∆r ←|r(k⋆)
i
−r(k⋆)
j
|
9:
if ∆r > 10−6 then
10:
ypref ←I[r(k⋆)
j
> r(k⋆)
i
]
11:
Add (¯oi, ai, aj, ∆r, ypref) to Dpair
12:
end if
13:
end if
14:
if |Dpair| ≥Npair then
15:
break
16:
end if
17: end for
18: Phase II: joint representation learning
19: for t = 1 to T do
20:
Sample transition minibatch B ∼D and comparison minibatch Bpair ∼Dpair
21:
Compute Lbase from B
22:
Compute Lpair from Bpair
23:
Update representation parameters using Lrepr
24:
Update π using the unchanged FlowBC objective
25:
Update target networks by EMA
26: end for
27: return ϕ, ψ, π
locomotion, and long-range navigation, making it a demanding evaluation of whether an
offline-learned representation supports zero-shot goal-conditioned control.
We use AntMaze as the primary benchmark because it directly tests the central motivation
of TwinJEPA: whether local action-comparison supervision can provide additional action-
discriminative information beyond transition-wise temporal prediction.
• DeepMind Control Suite Walker.
Walker, represented by walker walk, is a proprioceptive continuous-control domain re-
quiring a bipedal agent to maintain balance and generate coordinated locomotion. Unlike
AntMaze, Walker does not involve explicit maze geometry or sparse goal reaching; instead,
performance depends on stable posture control and dynamic coordination.
Walker therefore evaluates whether the proposed reward-gap and preference objectives re-
main useful in dense-reward continuous-control settings beyond sparse navigation.
• DeepMind Control Suite Cheetah.
Cheetah, represented by cheetah run, is a planar locomotion domain with dense and
continuously varying rewards. It differs from Walker in embodiment and control dynamics
while preserving the need for coordinated movement.
We include Cheetah to examine whether reward-gap regression and preference classifica-
tion provide transferable supervisory signals across different continuous-control systems
rather than benefiting only a particular locomotion morphology.
• DeepMind Control Suite Quadruped.
Quadruped, represented by quadruped stand, is a high-dimensional proprioceptive
control domain in which a four-legged agent must establish and maintain stable posture.


Table 3: Cross-domain auxiliary-objective summary. AntMaze entries report zero-shot success (%,
mean±SE over 10 matched seeds), whereas Cheetah and Quadruped report four-task mean returns
(mean±standard deviation). Full denotes (λ, αgap, αpref) = (0.1, 1.0, 0.5); Gap-only removes pref-
erence classification and Pref-only removes reward-gap regression. †Cheetah component ablations
use the matched five-seed ablation subset and should not be compared directly with the ten-seed
primary Cheetah result.
Setting
TD-JEPA
Full
Gap-only
Pref-only
AntMaze mn
68.8±4.0
73.2±3.5
74.0±3.0
77.0±2.9
AntMaze ms
51.4±3.7
52.0±4.3
57.4±2.4
50.2±3.4
Cheetah†
610.5±44.0
671.4±32.4
654.5±34.5
629.8±37.2
Quadruped
559.4±35.4
599.8±28.2
554.4±18.2
548.4±26.8
Compared with Walker and Cheetah, the task emphasizes joint coordination, body orienta-
tion, and local stability rather than sustained displacement.
Quadruped provides a complementary evaluation setting where the effectiveness of local
action comparisons can be examined under complex embodiment but relatively localized
control objectives.
• D4RL Maze2D.
Maze2D, represented by maze2d-medium, is a planar point-mass navigation domain in
which an agent moves through a geometric maze toward a target location. Compared with
AntMaze, it removes the complexity of quadrupedal locomotion and isolates the geometric
navigation component of goal-conditioned control.
Maze2D therefore serves as a lower-complexity counterpart to AntMaze and provides an
additional test of whether TwinJEPA remains compatible with the TD-JEPA framework
when embodiment and dynamics are simplified.
These environment families provide complementary evaluation conditions. AntMaze and Maze2D
examine goal-directed navigation under different levels of embodiment complexity. Walker and
Cheetah evaluate dynamic locomotion with dense reward feedback, whereas Quadruped studies
high-dimensional posture control. Together, these evaluations are intended not only to measure
whether TwinJEPA improves average performance, but also to characterize when locally mined
action comparisons provide useful representation-level supervision. The contribution of preference
supervision may depend on factors including reward structure, task horizon, action diversity, and the
quality of the mined local comparison distribution.
B.2
CROSS-DOMAIN AUXILIARY-OBJECTIVE SUMMARY
Section 4.4 summarizes how reward-gap regression and preference classification contribute across
environments. For completeness, Table 3 collects the component ablations used in that comparison
under their corresponding matched protocols. The table is intended as a cross-domain summary;
complete within-domain sensitivity analyses, uncertainty estimates, and seed-level results are re-
ported in the benchmark-specific appendix sections.
The component ordering varies across environments. Preference-only has the highest mean on
AntMaze medium-navigate, whereas gap-only has the highest mean on medium-stitch. On Cheetah,
gap-only retains much of the increase obtained by the full objective, while preference-only produces
a smaller positive difference. Quadruped exhibits a different pattern, with the full objective exceed-
ing both isolated components under the evaluated configuration. These results therefore support a
domain-dependent interpretation of the two auxiliary signals rather than a universal ordering or a
claim that their combination must dominate in every setting.
The corresponding detailed analyses are reported in Section C.3 for AntMaze, Section E.2 for Chee-
tah, and Section F.3 for Quadruped.


Table 4: Sensitivity to the local observation-matching tolerance τobs. Entries report zero-shot suc-
cess (%, mean±standard deviation) for the currently available tolerance-probe runs. Relative scale
is defined with respect to the default tolerance used for each domain. † denotes an incomplete seed
set. The probe results are diagnostic and are not used for model selection or for the primary perfor-
mance comparisons.
Domain
τobs
Relative scale
Success (%)
n
AntMaze
0.15
0.5×
76.7 ± 6.1
3†
0.30
1.0×
76.0 ± 2.5
5
0.60
2.0×
78.0 ± 3.5
3†
Maze2D exploratory probe
0.05
0.33×
8.0 ± 0.0
2†
0.10
0.67×
13.0 ± 4.2
2†
0.15
1.0×
8.0 ± 0.0
2†
0.30
2.0×
6.0 ± 2.8
2†
0.50
3.33×
13.0 ± 7.1
2†
B.3
SENSITIVITY TO LOCAL MATCHING TOLERANCE
The neighborhood resolution τobs controls the granularity of the local state matches used to construct
comparison pairs. To examine whether the reported results depend on a narrowly tuned resolution,
we vary τobs around the default operating point while keeping the remaining training and evaluation
settings unchanged. These sweeps are used only as sensitivity diagnostics and do not determine the
default configurations used in the main experiments.
On AntMaze, success remains within a narrow range of 76.0–78.0% when the matching tolerance
is varied from 0.5× to 2× the default value. In particular, the default τobs = 0.30 is not an isolated
high-performing operating point, providing no indication that the primary configuration relies on a
sharply tuned neighborhood resolution.
The currently available Maze2D runs show a less stable and non-monotonic pattern across a sub-
stantially wider tolerance range. However, only two seeds are presently available for each setting, so
these values are treated as an exploratory diagnostic rather than evidence for a cross-domain robust-
ness claim. Importantly, the sweep does not reveal a systematic advantage uniquely at the default
tolerance.
Overall, the available sensitivity results are consistent with τobs acting as a domain-scale-dependent
pair-construction parameter rather than a narrowly optimized downstream-performance hyperpa-
rameter. We therefore retain the prespecified default tolerances used in the primary experiments
rather than selecting a value post hoc from these sweeps.
C
ANTMAZE EXTENDED EVALUATION
Unless stated otherwise, all results in this section use the shared Fixed-HP configuration
(ψorth, lrψ) = (0.1, 10−4), 10 matched seeds, and evaluation after 1M training steps. We pro-
vide additional task-level statistics and reproduction details for the OGBench AntMaze evaluation
reported in the main paper. AntMaze is used as the primary benchmark because it combines long-
horizon goal-reaching, sparse feedback, and high-dimensional locomotion.
C.1
TASK-LEVEL ANTMAZE STATISTICS
The main paper reports domain-level AntMaze results and their matched-seed uncertainty analysis.
Here we provide the complete task-level decomposition over the four evaluated domains and five
evaluation goals per domain. Each entry reports the zero-shot success rate averaged over the same
matched seeds used in the main evaluation.


Figure 5: Environment visualization of the OGBench antmaze-medium-navigate-v0 envi-
ronment from six simulator viewpoints. The views illustrate the long-horizon navigation structure
evaluated in the AntMaze experiments.
Table 5: Complete task-level zero-shot success rates (%) on the four AntMaze domains. The ∆
row denotes the difference TwinJEPA −Official. The Avg column corresponds to the unweighted
average over five goals within each domain, while AntMaze-4 reports the average across the four
domain means.
Domain
Method
T1
T2
T3
T4
T5
Avg
mn
Official
81
80
32
57
94
68.8
TwinJEPA
79
86
49
54
98
73.2
∆
−2
+6
+17
−3
+4
+4.4
ln
Official
76
39
51
16
29
42.2
TwinJEPA
81
25
55
9
45
43.0
∆
+5
−14
+4
−7
+16
+0.8
ms
Official
52
3
59
81
62
51.4
TwinJEPA
65
1
41
78
75
52.0
∆
+13
−2
−18
−3
+13
+0.6
ls
Official
44
18
76
47
4
37.8
TwinJEPA
55
15
80
45
11
41.2
∆
+11
−3
+4
−2
+7
+3.4
AntMaze-4
Official 50.1 TwinJEPA 52.4
+2.3
Figure 6 complements the complete numerical decomposition with absolute and difference-based
views of the same matched evaluation. Panel (a) shows that the positive AntMaze-4 mean difference
is composed of modest domain-level changes rather than a large shift on a single domain. Panel (b)
resolves medium-navigate into its five evaluation goals, where the largest positive difference occurs
on Task 3. Panel (c) extends this view to all 20 AntMaze goals and makes clear that positive and
negative task-level changes coexist within each domain.
The decomposition also clarifies why the aggregate AntMaze result should not be interpreted as a
uniform improvement. For example, medium-navigate combines a +17 point difference on Task 3


Table 6: Complete task-level zero-shot success rates (%) on the four AntMaze domains. The ∆row
denotes TwinJEPA −Official. The Avg column is the unweighted average over the five evaluation
goals, while AntMaze-4 reports the average across the four domain means.
mn
ln
ms
ls
AntMaze-4
Avg.
0
25
50
75
100
Zero-shot success (%)
(a)
Domain-level absolute performance
T1
T2
T3
T4
T5
0
25
50
75
100
Success (%)
(b)
Medium-navigate task-level absolute
-2
+6
+17
-3
+4
−20
−10
0
10
20
TwinJEPA − Official (pp)
mn-T1
mn-T2
mn-T3
mn-T4
mn-T5
ln-T1
ln-T2
ln-T3
ln-T4
ln-T5
ms-T1
ms-T2
ms-T3
ms-T4
ms-T5
ls-T1
ls-T2
ls-T3
ls-T4
ls-T5
avg +4.4
avg +0.8
avg +0.6
avg +3.4
(c)
Complete AntMaze task-level differences
Official TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
Figure 6: Absolute and task-level performance decomposition on OGBench AntMaze under the
shared Fixed-HP protocol. (a) Domain-level zero-shot success of Official TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA;
error bars denote SE over 10 matched seeds where applicable. (b) Absolute per-task success on
medium-navigate, with annotations showing ∆= TwinJEPA −Official in percentage points. (c)
Complete task-level differences across the four AntMaze domains; annotations on the right report
the corresponding domain means. Together, the panels expose the absolute performance levels un-
derlying the difference-based analysis in the main paper and show that the positive domain-level
means arise from heterogeneous goal-level changes.
with small negative differences on Tasks 1 and 4, while large-navigate and medium-stitch contain
both sizable positive and negative changes. The resulting domain means are nevertheless positive in
all four cases. This pattern is consistent with the main-paper conclusion that local action-comparison
supervision has task-dependent effects rather than shifting all goals in the same direction.
C.2
OFFICIAL TD-JEPA REPRODUCTION CHECK
Before evaluating TwinJEPA, we verify that our matched implementation of Official TD-JEPA re-
produces the expected AntMaze performance regime. Under the Fixed-HP protocol, our medium-
navigate reproduction achieves 68.8±4.0% success, close to the reported TD-JEPA result of 70.4%.
This agreement indicates that the reproduced baseline follows the intended training and evaluation
setup despite the expected variation across independent runs.
For the primary comparison, we use this reproduced implementation rather than the published point
estimate as the matched baseline. Official TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA are trained with the same of-
fline data, backbone architecture, optimization schedule, training budget, task-inference procedure,
evaluation protocol, and matched random seeds. The only systematic difference is the additional
offline-mined action-comparison supervision introduced by TwinJEPA. This controlled setup avoids
attributing cross-paper differences in training or evaluation to the proposed objective.
Table 7 reports the resulting matched AntMaze comparison across all four domains. The reproduced
TD-JEPA results serve as the reference for all within-paper effect estimates and uncertainty analy-
ses. Accordingly, differences between the published and reproduced TD-JEPA values are treated as
protocol- and run-level variation rather than as algorithmic changes; the empirical effect of Twin-
JEPA is assessed only against the matched reproduction.
C.3
ADDITIONAL ABLATION AND SENSITIVITY RESULTS
The main paper summarizes the cross-domain contributions of reward-gap regression and preference
classification. Here we provide the corresponding AntMaze sensitivity results and complete numer-
ical values under the same Fixed-HP protocol. All experiments in this subsection use 10 matched
seeds and evaluation after 1M training steps.


Table 7: Domain-level zero-shot success (%) on AntMaze under the Fixed-HP protocol. Results are
reported as mean±SE over 10 matched seeds.
Setting
Official TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
mn
68.8±4.0
73.2±3.5
ln
42.2±2.1
43.0±3.3
ms
51.4±3.7
52.0±4.3
ls
37.8±2.7
41.2±3.1
AntMaze-4 Avg.
50.1
52.4 (+2.3)
Official
Gap-only
Pref-only
TwinJEPA
full
0
20
40
60
80
100
Success (%)
Component ablation (mn)
68.8
74.0
77.0
73.2
λ=0.05
λ=0.1
λ=0.5
0
20
40
60
80
100
Official 68.8
λ sensitivity (mn)
77.2
73.2
78.4
TwinJEPA ablations on OGBench AntMaze (Fixed-HP @10k, mn)
Figure 7: Additional TwinJEPA ablation and sensitivity results on AntMaze medium-navigate under
the Fixed-HP protocol using 10k inference samples. The left panel isolates reward-gap regression
and preference classification, where Gap-only removes preference classification and Pref-only re-
moves reward-gap regression. The right panel varies the auxiliary loss weight λ while retaining both
objectives. The shared setting λ = 0.1 is used for the primary cross-domain evaluation rather than
selected as the optimum for medium-navigate. Results are averaged over 10 matched seeds.
Ablation protocol.
Full TwinJEPA uses (λ, αgap, αpref) = (0.1, 1.0, 0.5). We consider two types
of ablations. First, we vary the auxiliary weight λ while retaining both comparative objectives.
Second, we isolate the reward-gap and preference terms by setting one of their coefficients to zero.
These experiments are intended to characterize sensitivity and component behavior rather than to
select a benchmark-specific configuration for the primary evaluation.
Sensitivity to the auxiliary weight.
The medium-navigate sweep shows that the effect is not con-
fined to a single choice of λ. All three evaluated weights produce higher mean success than the
matched Official TD-JEPA baseline, although their magnitudes differ. In particular, the shared set-
ting λ = 0.1 is not the best-performing value on medium-navigate in isolation. We retain it in
the primary experiments because the main evaluation uses a common auxiliary weighting across
domains rather than selecting benchmark-specific values after observing downstream performance.
The sweep should therefore be interpreted as a sensitivity analysis rather than as model selection for
the reported main result.
Component behavior.
The component ordering differs between the two AntMaze domains.
Preference-only gives the highest mean success on medium-navigate, whereas gap-only gives the
highest mean success on medium-stitch. The full objective does not dominate both isolated com-
ponents in either case. These results are consistent with the cross-domain analysis in the main
paper and show that reward-gap regression and preference classification provide distinct, domain-
dependent forms of supervision rather than a universally synergistic combination.


Table 8:
Additional AntMaze ablation and sensitivity results under the Fixed-HP protocol
(mean±SE over 10 matched seeds). The upper block varies the auxiliary weight λ on medium-
navigate while keeping both comparative objectives active. The lower block isolates reward-gap
regression and preference classification on medium-navigate and medium-stitch. Gap-only uses
(αgap, αpref) = (1, 0), whereas Pref-only uses (0, 0.5). The shared λ = 0.1 configuration is used in
the primary evaluation and is not selected as the optimum for individual AntMaze domains.
Domain Variant
Success (%) ∆vs. Off.
λ sensitivity on medium-navigate
mn
Official
68.8±4.0
–
mn
λ = 0.05
77.2±2.0
+8.4
mn
λ = 0.1 (shared)
73.2±3.5
+4.4
mn
λ = 0.5
78.4±2.5
+9.6
Component ablations at λ = 0.1
mn
Gap-only
74.0±3.0
+5.2
mn
Pref-only
77.0±2.9
+8.2
mn
Full TwinJEPA
73.2±3.5
+4.4
ms
Official
51.4±3.7
–
ms
Gap-only
57.4±2.4
+6.0
ms
Pref-only
50.2±3.4
−1.2
ms
Full TwinJEPA
52.0±4.3
+0.6
The corresponding large-navigate and large-stitch variants remain within the same general perfor-
mance range as the matched TD-JEPA and full TwinJEPA configurations and do not change the
interpretation above.
C.4
LEARNING DYNAMICS ON MEDIUM-NAVIGATE
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Train steps (×106)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Success (%)
AntMaze-MN (overall)
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Train steps (×106)
AntMaze-MN task2
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Train steps (×106)
AntMaze-MN task3
Official TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
Figure 8: Learning dynamics on antmaze-medium-navigate-v0 under the Fixed-HP con-
figuration (ψortho, lrψ) = (0.1, 10−4). Curves report mean zero-shot success (%) ±SE over 10
matched seeds at {0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0} × 106 training steps. The left panel shows success av-
eraged over the five evaluation goals (final 68.8% →73.2%, ∆+4.4). The middle panel shows
Task 2, a relatively high-performing goal (final 80% →86%, ∆+6). The right panel shows Task 3,
a lower-performing goal with the largest final task-level difference (final 32% →49%, ∆+17).
Aggregate learning dynamics.
Figure 8 provides a temporal view of the medium-navigate result
reported in the main evaluation. At 250k steps, Official TD-JEPA has a small advantage in the five-
task mean (56.2% versus 54.0%). TwinJEPA is higher at 500k steps (68.0% versus 63.4%), after
which the difference narrows at 750k steps (68.8% versus 67.6%). At the final checkpoint, Twin-
JEPA reaches 73.2% compared with 68.8% for Official TD-JEPA. The separation is therefore not


Table 9: Checkpoint-level summary for antmaze-medium-navigate-v0 under the Fixed-
HP protocol (10 matched seeds).
The second column reports the first recorded checkpoint at
which the mean zero-shot success reaches at least 50%. Because evaluations are available only
at {0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0} × 106 training steps, these values describe checkpoint attainment rather
than continuous convergence or sample efficiency. The remaining columns report final zero-shot
success (%) at 1M training steps.
Setting
First checkpoint ≥50% (Off. / Twin)
Official @ 1M
TwinJEPA @ 1M
∆
Overall (5-task avg.)
250k / 250k
68.8
73.2
+4.4
Task 3
750k / 500k
32
49
+17.0
Task 2
250k / 250k
80
86
+6.0
monotonic over training, and the final difference should not be interpreted as a persistent advantage
at every checkpoint.
Task-specific dynamics.
The representative task curves illustrate two different temporal patterns.
On Task 2, both methods reach relatively high success early in training and finish at 80% for Of-
ficial TD-JEPA and 86% for TwinJEPA. The difference is therefore modest relative to their overall
performance.
Task 3 exhibits greater variation. TwinJEPA first attains a mean success of at least 50% at the 500k
checkpoint, whereas Official TD-JEPA first reaches this threshold at 750k. Official TD-JEPA then
decreases from approximately 57% at 750k to 32% at the final checkpoint, while TwinJEPA finishes
at 49%. Thus, the final 17-point difference reflects both earlier separation during training and a
larger late-stage decline of the baseline. This decomposition is important because the final task-level
gap should not be attributed solely to a uniformly increasing TwinJEPA advantage. Since only five
checkpoints are recorded, these curves do not establish continuous-time convergence, monotonic
improvement, or a formal difference in optimization speed. They instead provide a coarse temporal
diagnostic showing how the final medium-navigate differences emerge over the recorded training
trajectory. The learning-curve analysis is complementary to the final matched-seed statistics reported
in the main paper. It provides information about the temporal evolution of the observed differences
but is not used as an additional statistical test of the final performance effect.
D
DMC WALKER EXTENDED EVALUATION
This section provides the extended Walker results that complement the Fixed-HP comparison re-
ported in the main paper. While the main paper focuses on the matched-seed effect and task-level
decomposition, here we report the broader optimization grid used to assess whether the observed
Walker behavior is specific to a single hyperparameter configuration.
D.1
HYPERPARAMETER-GRID EVALUATION
We evaluate the ExORL/DMC Walker proprioceptive benchmark over the same six-setting grid
used for the TD-JEPA comparison, ψortho ∈{0.01, 0.1, 1},
lrψ ∈{10−4, 10−5}. For each
setting, performance is averaged over stand, walk, run, and spin after 3 M training steps us-
ing five matched seeds. The paper-aligned Fixed-HP configuration corresponds to (ψortho, lrψ) =
(0.1, 10−4). Three TwinJEPA runs that exhibited training instability were rerun using the same
seed and hyperparameter configuration and the rerun values are used in the reported comparison
(seed 8948 at (0.01, 10−5) and (0.1, 10−4), and seed 4729 at (1, 10−5)). The matched seed set itself
is unchanged.
Grid-level behavior.
Table 10 shows that the Walker effect varies with the underlying TD-JEPA
optimization configuration. TwinJEPA has a higher mean return in five of the six settings and a
lower mean in one setting, with differences ranging from −2.5 to +12.6. At the shared Fixed-HP
point used in the main evaluation, the four-task mean changes from 774.3 to 782.7 (∆+8.4). Across
all six settings, the aggregate mean changes from 765.5 to 771.3 (∆+5.8).


Figure 9: Environment visualizations of the DeepMind Control Suite walker-walk environment
from six camera viewpoints (2×3). Top row: side, front, and three-quarter front views. Bottom row:
three-quarter rear, low-angle, and back views.
Table 10: Hyperparameter-grid evaluation on ExORL/DMC Walker. Each row reports the mean
episode return averaged over stand, walk, run, and spin after 3 M training steps.
Indi-
vidual configurations are reported as mean±SE over five matched seeds.
The final row ag-
gregates the six settings, corresponding to 30 matched seed–configuration pairs.
∆denotes
TwinJEPA−Official TD-JEPA. The shared main-paper configuration (ψortho, lrψ) = (0.1, 10−4)
is shown as one point in this broader grid rather than selected as the best-performing Walker config-
uration.
ψortho
lrψ
Official TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
∆
0.01
10−4
779.1±8.6
779.6±8.4
+0.5
0.01
10−5
766.2±16.7
763.7±9.0
−2.5
0.1
10−4
774.3±10.6
782.7±4.7
+8.4
0.1
10−5
754.9±9.8
767.5±7.2
+12.6
1
10−4
771.9±8.9
776.4±6.0
+4.5
1
10−5
746.8±15.0
757.6±15.3 +10.8
Overall (30 pairs)
765.5±4.9
771.3±3.8
+5.8
The grid is intended as a robustness diagnostic rather than an additional model-selection procedure.
In particular, the largest Walker difference occurs at (0.1, 10−5), not at the shared Fixed-HP config-
uration used in the main paper. We therefore do not interpret the grid as evidence that a particular
hyperparameter setting is universally preferable. Instead, it shows that the Walker result is not con-
fined to a single optimization point, while also confirming that the magnitude of the effect depends
on the underlying representation-learning configuration.
The task-level decomposition of the shared Fixed-HP result is reported in the main paper and is not
repeated here. That analysis shows that the aggregate Walker difference is concentrated on stand
and run, whereas walk and spin operate closer to the reward ceiling.


Figure 10: Environment visualizations of the DeepMind Control Suite cheetah-run environment
from six camera viewpoints (2×3). Top row: side, front, and three-quarter front views. Bottom row:
three-quarter rear, low-angle, and back views.
E
CHEETAH (EXORL) OFFLINE CONTROL
This section provides the complete numerical results and auxiliary-objective diagnostics for the
ExORL/DMC Cheetah evaluation. The main paper reports the matched-seed effect and task-level
structure; here we provide additional implementation details, task-level values, ablation settings, and
per-seed results.
Experimental setup.
We evaluate TwinJEPA on the ExORL/DMC Cheetah RND dataset. Chee-
tah provides a dense-reward locomotion setting whose dynamics differ substantially from both maze
navigation and bipedal Walker control. As illustrated in Figure 10, the agent is a planar articulated
system whose performance depends on coordinated joint motion and sustained velocity rather than
explicit goal geometry.
All models are trained for 1 M gradient steps with batch size 1024, discount factor γ = 0.98,
and ψortho = 0.1. TwinJEPA uses the shared auxiliary configuration λ = 0.1, αgap = 1.0, and
αpref = 0.5. Local action-comparison pairs are constructed with τobs = 0.5. TD-JEPA uses
the same offline dataset, training schedule, and evaluation pipeline without the pairwise auxiliary
objective.
Zero-shot evaluation covers walk, walk backward, run, and run backward. Each task is
evaluated over 10 episodes using 10 k inference samples. The primary comparison uses 10 matched
seeds and reports the mean return across the four tasks after 1 M training steps.
E.1
COMPLETE TASK-LEVEL RESULTS
Table 11 provides the numerical decomposition of the Cheetah result summarized in the main paper.
The four-task mean increases from 638.0 to 671.7 (∆+33.7), with positive paired differences on 7
of 10 matched seeds. The observed across-seed standard deviation is also lower for TwinJEPA (24.3
versus 44.2), although we treat this as a descriptive property of the evaluated runs rather than as a
separate statistical claim.
The task-level differences are heterogeneous. The largest mean differences occur on the two for-
ward locomotion tasks, walk and run, whereas walk backward is already close to the apparent


Table 11: Complete task-level zero-shot returns on ExORL/DMC Cheetah under the Fixed-HP pro-
tocol (10 matched seeds, 1M training steps). Official TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA columns report
mean±standard deviation across seeds. The ∆column reports the corresponding paired seed-wise
difference. The Overall row averages the four evaluation tasks within each seed before aggregation
across seeds.
Task
Official TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
∆
walk
892.6 ± 89.7
963.3 ± 42.9
+70.7 ± 117.4
walk backward
984.3 ± 0.9
984.5 ± 0.6
+0.1 ± 1.0
run
303.7 ± 88.8
360.4 ± 58.5
+56.7 ± 133.6
run backward
371.3 ± 22.8
378.5 ± 18.3
+7.2 ± 17.6
Overall
638.0 ± 44.2
671.7 ± 24.3
+33.7 ± 59.1
Table 12: Additional Cheetah auxiliary-objective and loss-weight ablations under the Fixed-HP
protocol (5 matched seeds). Each entry reports mean±standard deviation of the four-task return
after 1M training steps. Gap-only removes preference classification, whereas Pref-only removes
reward-gap regression. The alternative λ settings retain both auxiliary objectives.
Variant
λ
αgap
αpref
Return @ 1M
Official TD-JEPA
–
–
–
610.5 ± 44.0
Full TwinJEPA
0.1
1.0
0.5
671.4 ± 32.4
Gap-only
0.1
1.0
0.0
654.5 ± 34.5
Pref-only
0.1
0.0
0.5
629.8 ± 37.2
λ = 0.05
0.05
1.0
0.5
634.8 ± 52.7
λ = 0.5
0.5
1.0
0.5
629.5 ± 41.7
return ceiling for both methods. This complete numerical breakdown complements the task-level
visualization reported in the main paper.
E.2
AUXILIARY-OBJECTIVE AND WEIGHT SENSITIVITY
The main paper compares the full, gap-only, and preference-only objectives across domains. Here
we provide the complete Cheetah ablation results, including additional values of the auxiliary weight
λ and the underlying per-seed returns. The ablation study uses five matched seeds. Official TD-
JEPA and full TwinJEPA are evaluated on this same five-seed subset, while the remaining variants
use identical seeds and evaluation conditions. Because this subset differs from the 10-seed primary
evaluation, the corresponding aggregate means should be interpreted within this ablation experiment
and should not be compared directly with the 10-seed values in Table 11.
Within this five-seed subset, the full objective has the highest mean return among the evaluated
configurations. Gap-only retains most of the improvement over the matched TD-JEPA baseline,
whereas Pref-only produces a smaller positive difference. This ordering differs from the AntMaze
ablations, where the relative contributions of the two terms change across domains. The result there-
fore supports the interpretation used in the main paper that reward-gap regression and preference
classification provide distinct, domain-dependent forms of supervision rather than a fixed ranking
of component importance. The auxiliary-weight sweep also shows that the result depends on the
strength of the additional objective. Both λ = 0.05 and λ = 0.5 produce lower mean returns than
the shared λ = 0.1 configuration on this five-seed subset. These comparisons do not establish a
globally optimal value of λ; they instead document the sensitivity of the Cheetah result around the
shared configuration used in the primary experiments.
Seed-level behavior.
Figure 11 and Table 13 show that the aggregate ordering does not arise from
identical behavior on every seed. Full TwinJEPA exceeds the matched TD-JEPA baseline on four of
the five seeds, while the component and λ variants exhibit different seed-wise patterns. These results


Table 13: Per-seed returns for the Cheetah auxiliary-objective ablations (5 matched seeds, 1M train-
ing steps). The table exposes the run-to-run variation underlying the aggregate results in Table 12.
Seed Official
Full
Gap-only
Pref-only
λ = 0.05
λ = 0.5
3917
561.0
689.4
668.0
633.2
683.3
623.2
3502
658.0
615.3
631.9
597.8
692.1
642.2
8948
639.0
686.5
708.6
692.4
567.1
689.0
9460
566.6
672.2
623.9
611.9
607.2
619.3
4729
627.8
693.6
639.8
613.4
624.1
573.7
3917
3502
8948
9460
4729
Seed
−50
0
50
100
150
Δ return vs.\ Official
Twin (full)
gap-only
pref-only
λ=0.05
λ=0.5
Figure 11: Seed-level return differences for Cheetah auxiliary-objective and loss-weight ablations
under the Fixed-HP protocol. Each bar reports ∆= Variant −Official TD-JEPA for one of five
matched seeds after 1M training steps. The figure is intended as a seed-level diagnostic of the
aggregate results in Table 12, rather than as an additional statistical test.
provide a finer-grained view of the ablation subset and reinforce the need to interpret the Cheetah
ablations in terms of both mean effects and run-to-run variability.
F
QUADRUPED EXTENDED EVALUATION
This section provides an extended analysis of the ExORL/DMC Quadruped evaluation reported in
the main paper. Among the state-based continuous-control domains considered in our matched
evaluation, Quadruped exhibits the largest domain-level mean increase under the shared Fixed-HP
configuration. It also differs qualitatively from Walker and Cheetah: the positive effect is distributed
across all four evaluated control objectives rather than being concentrated on a small subset of tasks.
This makes Quadruped a useful case for examining whether the aggregate gain reflects a consistent
seed-level effect, how it decomposes across individual tasks, and whether both auxiliary objectives
contribute to the observed improvement. Accordingly, we report the underlying seed-level returns,
exact task-level values, and an additional auxiliary-weight sensitivity analysis.
Experimental setup.
We evaluate TwinJEPA on the ExORL/DMC Quadruped domain using the
5k-episode RND replay buffer. Models are trained for 1M gradient steps under the shared Fixed-HP
configuration (ψortho, lrψ) = (0.1, 10−4) with five matched seeds. As in the other state-based
comparisons, TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA share the offline data, backbone, optimization schedule,
training budget, task-inference procedure, random seeds, and evaluation protocol; the additional
action-comparison objective is the systematic difference between the two methods.
Quadruped observations have a different numerical scale from the other state-based continuous-
control domains. We therefore use τobs = 1.0 for local comparison mining. This value was selected
using a small offline probe intended to avoid an overly restrictive matching regime rather than by


Figure 12: Environment visualizations of the DeepMind Control Suite quadruped-stand task
from six camera viewpoints (2×3). The views illustrate the four-legged morphology and spatial
configuration used in the continuous-control evaluation.
optimizing downstream evaluation return. All remaining optimization and evaluation settings follow
the shared protocol.
Zero-shot evaluation averages performance over stand, walk, run, and jump. The primary
four-task mean increases from 559.4 for TD-JEPA to 599.8 for TwinJEPA (∆+40.4). The paired
bootstrap 95% confidence interval reported in the main paper is [+20.6, +60.3], and all five matched
seeds yield positive paired differences. Because only five seeds are available, however, the corre-
sponding exact two-sided sign-flip test attains p = 0.0625. We therefore emphasize the effect mag-
nitude, directional consistency, and task-level structure rather than interpreting the result through a
binary significance threshold. The analyses below provide the numerical decomposition underlying
this aggregate result.
F.1
SEED-LEVEL RESULTS
To expose the run-to-run variation underlying the aggregate Quadruped result, Table 14 reports the
four-task mean return for each of the five matched seeds. Because TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA are
evaluated with identical seed pairings, ∆is computed within each pair. This paired design reduces
variation introduced by comparing independently sampled seed sets and provides a direct view of
how consistently the TwinJEPA modification changes performance across runs.
TwinJEPA exceeds the matched TD-JEPA baseline on all five seeds, yielding a mean paired dif-
ference of +40.4. The effect is therefore directionally consistent across the available runs, but its
magnitude remains heterogeneous, ranging from +12.6 to +71.6. Importantly, the aggregate im-
provement is not attributable to a single outlying seed: every matched pair contributes positively,
while the spread of the differences shows that the size of the effect remains sensitive to stochastic
variation. The standard deviation is numerically smaller for TwinJEPA (28.2 versus 35.4), but with
only five seeds we do not interpret this difference as evidence of reduced variance. Likewise, the
5/5 positive-seed count should not be treated as a standalone significance claim. For five uniformly
signed paired differences, the exact two-sided sign-flip test attains its minimum possible value of
p = 0.0625. Together with the paired bootstrap interval reported in the main paper, the seed-level
results therefore support a consistent positive direction under the evaluated protocol while still mo-
tivating caution about the precision of the estimated effect size.


Table 14: Seed-level zero-shot returns on ExORL/DMC Quadruped under the Fixed-HP protocol
(τobs = 1.0; five matched seeds; 1M training steps). Each row reports the four-task mean for one
matched seed, with ∆= TwinJEPA −Official TD-JEPA. The final row reports mean±standard
deviation across seeds.
Seed
Official TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
∆
3502
520.8
583.1
+62.3
3917
612.4
634.3
+21.9
4729
548.5
561.1
+12.6
8948
574.5
608.4
+33.8
9460
540.5
612.0
+71.6
mean±std
559.4 ± 35.4
599.8 ± 28.2
+40.4
Table 15: Task-level zero-shot returns on ExORL/DMC Quadruped under the Fixed-HP protocol
(five matched seeds; 1M training steps). Each row reports mean±standard deviation across seeds
for an individual control objective and the corresponding mean difference ∆= TwinJEPA −
Official TD-JEPA.
Task
Official TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
∆
stand
754.5 ± 47.9
804.1 ± 35.8
+49.6
walk
462.7 ± 77.1
534.8 ± 53.1
+72.1
run
384.4 ± 23.0
409.2 ± 19.1
+24.8
jump
635.9 ± 53.2
651.1 ± 21.4
+15.2
F.2
TASK-LEVEL NUMERICAL BREAKDOWN
The main-paper task-level analysis shows that Quadruped differs from the more concentrated Walker
and Cheetah patterns. Whereas the larger effects in those domains are concentrated on particular
objectives, all four Quadruped tasks exhibit positive mean differences. Table 15 provides the corre-
sponding numerical decomposition.
The largest mean difference occurs on walk (+72.1), followed by stand (+49.6), run (+24.8),
and jump (+15.2). Thus, the positive domain-level effect is not confined to a single control objec-
tive. Instead, TwinJEPA exhibits positive mean differences across locomotion, posture, and jumping
behaviors, although the magnitude of the change varies substantially across tasks.
This broader task-level pattern distinguishes Quadruped from Walker and Cheetah, where the ag-
gregate gains are concentrated more strongly on selected objectives. One possible interpretation is
that the locally mined comparisons provide useful action-discriminative supervision across a wider
range of behaviors in Quadruped. However, the present experiments do not isolate the cause of
this pattern. Offline coverage, reward structure, baseline performance, control geometry, and the in-
formativeness of the mined comparison distribution may all contribute to the observed differences.
We therefore treat the task ordering as descriptive rather than as evidence for a causal relationship
between task difficulty, performance headroom, and the magnitude of the TwinJEPA effect.
F.3
ADDITIONAL AUXILIARY-OBJECTIVE SENSITIVITY
The main paper reports the Quadruped Full, Gap-only, and Pref-only configurations as part of the
cross-domain component analysis. Quadruped is particularly informative for this comparison be-
cause the full objective produces a substantially larger mean return than either isolated auxiliary
term, unlike the component ordering observed on AntMaze and Cheetah. For completeness, Ta-
ble 16 additionally reports the λ = 0.05 configuration and the differences relative to both TD-JEPA
and the shared full TwinJEPA setting.
Within this five-seed Quadruped comparison, the full objective has the highest mean return among
the evaluated variants. Neither isolated component reproduces the full-objective result: Gap-only


Table 16: Additional auxiliary-objective results on ExORL/DMC Quadruped under the Fixed-HP
protocol (ψortho = 0.1, lrψ = 10−4, τobs = 1.0; five matched seeds; 1M training steps). Entries
report mean±standard deviation of the four-task return. Gap-only removes preference classification,
Pref-only removes reward-gap regression, and the λ = 0.05 variant retains both auxiliary objectives
with a reduced overall auxiliary weight.
Variant
Mean return
∆vs. Official
∆vs. Full
Official TD-JEPA
559.4±35.4
–
−40.4
Full TwinJEPA (λ = 0.1)
599.8±28.2
+40.4
–
Gap-only
554.4±18.2
−5.0
−45.4
Pref-only
548.4±26.8
−10.9
−51.4
λ = 0.05
569.2±33.6
+9.8
−30.6
and Pref-only obtain mean returns of 554.4 and 548.4, respectively, compared with 599.8 for Full
TwinJEPA. Moreover, both isolated components fall slightly below the matched TD-JEPA base-
line. In this domain, the observed gain therefore appears specifically associated with the combined
comparative objective under the evaluated configuration, rather than with either reward-gap regres-
sion or preference classification alone. The reduced-weight configuration λ = 0.05 reaches 569.2,
retaining a positive mean difference of +9.8 relative to TD-JEPA but remaining 30.6 below the
shared λ = 0.1 configuration. This result indicates that reducing the overall strength of comparative
supervision preserves part, but not all, of the observed Quadruped gain. Together with the isolated-
component results, it suggests that both the composition and weighting of the auxiliary objective
matter in this domain.
These observations should not be generalized into a universal claim of synergy between reward-gap
regression and preference classification. The cross-domain ablations show that component behavior
changes substantially across AntMaze, Cheetah, and Quadruped: isolated objectives can be com-
petitive or stronger in other environments, whereas Quadruped is a setting in which the combined
objective is clearly stronger under the evaluated protocol. The result therefore supports the paper’s
broader interpretation that the two signals provide distinct, domain-dependent forms of comparative
supervision rather than a fixed hierarchy of component importance.
Likewise, the λ comparison is a local sensitivity analysis rather than evidence that λ = 0.1 is glob-
ally optimal. Together with the AntMaze and Cheetah sensitivity analyses, it indicates that the effec-
tiveness of comparative supervision depends not only on whether the auxiliary signals are present,
but also on their relative weighting and their interaction with the underlying domain. Overall, the
Quadruped results provide the clearest case in our evaluation in which local action-comparison su-
pervision is positive across matched seeds, distributed across all evaluated tasks, and strongest when
the two auxiliary signals are used jointly, while the small number of seeds and cross-domain varia-
tion still motivate a deliberately limited interpretation.
G
D4RL MAZE2D EXTENDED EVALUATION
Maze2D setup.
We further evaluate TwinJEPA on D4RL maze2d-medium-v1, a planar
point-mass navigation domain that removes the high-dimensional locomotion dynamics present in
AntMaze while preserving the goal-reaching objective. This environment provides a complemen-
tary evaluation of whether the comparative supervision introduced by TwinJEPA remains effective
when the control problem is simplified to geometric navigation.
Models are trained for 1M gradient steps using five matched seeds. The evaluation follows the shared
Fixed-HP configuration (ψortho, lrψ) = (0.1, 10−4). Local action-comparison pairs are constructed
by bucketing the first two position coordinates, using τobs = 0.15, db = 2, and ϵa = 0.01. All other
training and evaluation procedures follow the common protocol described in Section B.
Task-level results.
Figure 14 reports the task-level zero-shot success rates under the shared Fixed-
HP configuration. TwinJEPA improves the five-task mean success rate from 9.2% to 14.4%, corre-
sponding to an absolute difference of +5.2 percentage points.


Figure 13: Environment visualizations of the D4RL maze2d-medium-v1 environment from six
camera viewpoints (2×3). The views illustrate the planar navigation structure used for the goal-
conditioned control evaluation.
The improvement is not uniformly distributed across tasks. T1 and T2 remain at zero success for
both methods, whereas TwinJEPA improves T3, T4, and T5 by 12, 6, and 8 percentage points,
respectively. Therefore, the aggregate gain at this operating point is mainly contributed by the
subset of tasks where the baseline achieves nonzero performance. The two unsolved tasks also
illustrate that the auxiliary objectives do not eliminate all difficulties associated with long-horizon
goal reaching.
Interpretation.
Maze2D provides a complementary but more limited cross-domain evaluation.
Under the shared Fixed-HP configuration, TwinJEPA improves the average success rate and yields
positive differences on the three tasks where nonzero performance is observed. At the same time,
the result should be interpreted together with the characteristics of this domain. Unlike AntMaze
and continuous-control benchmarks, Maze2D contains simpler dynamics and a lower-dimensional
state space, which changes the type of information captured by the mined local comparisons. The
current results therefore do not imply that comparative supervision provides identical benefits across
all goal-conditioned navigation settings.
Instead, Maze2D serves as a robustness evaluation showing that the proposed auxiliary objectives
can remain useful beyond high-dimensional locomotion and complex maze navigation, while also
highlighting that their contribution depends on the interaction between the representation objective
and the specific downstream task.
H
PIXEL-BASED EXORL EVALUATION
The main cross-domain experiments use proprioceptive state observations. Here we additionally
evaluate the same ExORL control domains from rendered pixel observations to examine whether
the TwinJEPA training objective remains applicable when representations must be learned from
visual input.
The state and pixel protocols use the same underlying ExORL RND episodes and evaluation tasks,
but differ in the observations provided to the agent. Figure 15 illustrates this distinction using one
shared trajectory from each domain. The first three columns show the 64 × 64 RGB frames at
t−2, t−1, and t, which form the stacked input to the pixel encoder. The final column shows the


T1
T2
T3
T4
T5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Zero-shot success (\%) @ 1M
Δ=+0.0
Δ=+0.0
Δ=+12.0
Δ=+6.0
Δ=+8.0
Overall: 9.2→14.4 (Δ=+5.2)
Maze2d main Fixed-HP: per-task success (paper cell, 5 seeds)
Official
TwinJEPA
Figure 14: Per-task zero-shot success rates on D4RL maze2d-medium-v1 after 1M training
steps under the shared Fixed-HP configuration (ψortho = 0.1, lrψ = 10−4; five matched seeds).
Bars compare Official TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA, and annotations report ∆= TwinJEPA −
Official TD-JEPA in percentage points. T1 and T2 remain unsolved by both methods, whereas
T3, T4, and T5 show positive differences of 12, 6, and 8 percentage points. The five-task mean
success rate increases from 9.2% to 14.4% under this shared operating point.
proprioceptive state at the same time step, with dimensions 24, 17, and 78 for Walker, Cheetah, and
Quadruped, respectively.
Pixel buffers are generated once by rendering the corresponding offline state episodes and are then
cached for training. Online rendering is required only during evaluation rollouts. We therefore treat
the pixel experiments as an observation-modality extension rather than as a new environment or
data-collection setting. State and pixel returns are not compared directly because the two protocols
also differ in encoder architecture, batch size, and training horizon.
Pixel ExORL setup.
We evaluate TD-JEPA and TwinJEPA from pixels on the ExORL Walker,
Cheetah, and Quadruped domains under a shared Fixed-HP protocol. Both methods use a DrQ
encoder with 64×64 RGB observations, a frame stack of three, batch size 512, and 2×106 gradient
steps, with ψortho = 0.1 and lrψ = 10−4.
TwinJEPA uses the same reward-gap regression and preference-classification objectives as in the
state experiments, with λ = 0.1, applied through the corresponding pixel-specific comparison
pipeline. The auxiliary heads are used only during training and introduce no additional computation
during evaluation.
Evaluation averages 10 episodes per task and then averages task returns within each domain. Walker
and Quadruped use five matched seeds (3917, 3502, 8948, 9460, 4729), while Cheetah is available
for all ten matched seeds. Because the number of seeds differs across domains, the domain-level
results are interpreted separately. For completeness, we also report an unweighted average over the
three domain means as a descriptive summary rather than as a pooled statistical estimate.
Cheetah seed-set sensitivity.
The complete ten-seed Cheetah comparison yields a mean differ-
ence of −8.5 points. Inspection of the individual runs shows that TD-JEPA seeds 8948 and 4729
have comparatively high run returns of 589 and 549, respectively.
To assess sensitivity to seed composition, we perform an additional diagnostic after excluding these
two seeds. One five-seed subset is sampled uniformly at random from the remaining eight seeds us-
ing a fixed random seed for reproducibility. The resulting subset is {2226, 3917, 4501, 6341, 9460}.


Figure 15: Two observation representations of the same underlying ExORL trajectories. Each row
corresponds to Walker, Cheetah, or Quadruped. Columns 1–3 show the 64×64 RGB frames at t−2,
t−1, and t used as the stacked pixel input to the DrQ encoder. Column 4 shows the proprioceptive
state vector at the same time step (24, 17, and 78 dimensions, respectively). The figure illustrates
the change in observation modality rather than a direct performance comparison between the state
and pixel protocols.
Table 17: Pixel-based ExORL performance under the Fixed-HP protocol (2 × 106 training steps).
Walker and Quadruped use five matched seeds, while the primary Cheetah result uses all ten avail-
able matched seeds. The Average row reports the unweighted mean of the three domain-level means.
For Cheetah, we additionally report one five-seed sensitivity subset sampled with a fixed random
seed after excluding 8948 and 4729, whose TD-JEPA run returns are unusually high relative to the
remaining runs. This subset is used only as a seed-composition diagnostic and does not replace the
complete ten-seed comparison.
Setting
n
TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
∆
Walker
5
716.6 ± 60.0
741.8 ± 35.9
+25.3
Cheetah
10
694.8 ± 23.2
686.4 ± 12.1
−8.5
Quadruped
5
645.0 ± 24.6
650.7 ± 29.0
+5.6
Unweighted domain avg.
–
685.5
693.0
+7.5
Cheetah seed-set sensitivity
Random five
5
685.1 ± 14.7
689.4 ± 14.9
+4.3
On this subset, TD-JEPA obtains a mean return of 685.1 and TwinJEPA obtains 689.4, correspond-
ing to ∆+4.3. As this exclusion and resampling analysis is performed after inspecting the complete
runs, we do not treat the random five-seed result as a replacement for the ten-seed estimate. In-
stead, the sign change from −8.5 on all ten seeds to +4.3 on the diagnostic subset indicates that the


Table 18: Task-level pixel returns for Walker and Quadruped under the same five-seed pairings
used in Table 17. Cheetah task-level values are omitted because the available decomposition was
computed on a different seed subset from the revised comparisons reported above.
Domain
Task
TD-JEPA
TwinJEPA
∆
Walker
stand
784.0
887.2
+103.2
walk
811.9
815.7
+3.7
spin
976.9
978.1
+1.2
run
293.4
286.4
−7.1
Quadruped
run
453.8
472.3
+18.5
walk
461.6
470.7
+9.1
stand
904.6
917.4
+12.9
jump
760.2
742.3
−17.9
Cheetah pixel result is sensitive to seed composition. Accordingly, we do not use Cheetah pixels as
evidence for a reliable positive performance effect.
Task-level diagnostics.
For Walker and Quadruped, the five-seed domain-level results can be de-
composed directly into their constituent control tasks. We omit the Cheetah task-level decomposi-
tion here because the previously computed task averages correspond to a different seed subset and
are therefore not consistent with either the complete ten-seed result or the fixed random five-seed
diagnostic reported above.
Task-level behavior.
On Walker, the positive domain-level difference is concentrated primarily on
stand, which increases from 784.0 to 887.2. The differences on walk and spin are small, while
run decreases by 7.1 points. The Walker pixel result therefore reflects a concentrated task-level
effect rather than a uniform improvement across all four control objectives.
Quadruped shows a smaller positive domain-level difference. TwinJEPA has higher mean returns
on run, walk, and stand, with differences of +18.5, +9.1, and +12.9, respectively, while jump
decreases by 17.9 points. The task-level pattern is therefore mixed despite the positive domain mean.
Overall interpretation.
The pixel experiments are intended primarily as an observation-modality
extension of the state-based evaluation rather than as an additional claim of uniform performance
improvement. They show that the same comparative representation-learning objective can be applied
when observations are provided as cached RGB frame stacks rather than proprioceptive state vectors.
Across the three primary domain comparisons, the unweighted domain mean changes from 685.5 to
693.0, corresponding to a descriptive difference of +7.5 points. This aggregate should be interpreted
cautiously because the domains use different numbers of matched seeds and the observed effects are
heterogeneous.
Walker shows the largest positive mean difference, concentrated primarily on stand. Quadruped
shows a smaller positive mean difference with mixed task-level effects. Cheetah differs from both
domains, with the complete ten-seed comparison favoring TD-JEPA and the fixed random five-seed
diagnostic favoring TwinJEPA. The Cheetah result therefore illustrates sensitivity to seed composi-
tion rather than a stable directional effect.
Taken together, these experiments support the applicability of the TwinJEPA training objective to
visual observations, but they do not establish modality-independent or uniformly positive perfor-
mance gains. The pixel results also remain separate from the state-based comparisons because the
encoder architecture, batch size, and training horizon differ between the two protocols.
I
THEORETICAL PROPERTIES OF TWINJEPA
We analyze TwinJEPA as an additive extension of the TD-JEPA representation objective and char-
acterize the supervision introduced by reward-gap regression and preference classification. The


analysis concerns the fixed distribution of local action-comparison pairs constructed from the offline
dataset. It establishes four main properties and an affine-head specialization.
1. Target consistency. The reward-gap and preference targets are derived from the same
selected signed reward contrast. Reward-gap regression uses its magnitude, whereas pref-
erence classification uses its induced ordering.
2. Exact reduction to TD-JEPA. When the auxiliary contribution is disabled, the TwinJEPA
objective reduces exactly to the original TD-JEPA objective. Any theoretical property es-
tablished for TD-JEPA under its original assumptions therefore applies to this reduced case.
3. Reward-gap decodability. For a fixed representation, the minimum achievable squared
reward-gap risk is the expected conditional variance of the reward-gap magnitude given
that representation. Reducing this risk therefore requires the representation to preserve
information predictive of outcome-contrast magnitude under the mined pair distribution.
4. Local ranking control. On the mined pair distribution, the preference cross-entropy upper-
bounds the probability that the learned scorer reverses the reward-induced ordering of a
retained action pair, up to the factor 1/ log 2.
These statements characterize the representation-level information promoted by the auxiliary ob-
jectives. They do not imply that TwinJEPA improves every downstream task, that the two auxiliary
terms are universally complementary, or that the theoretical guarantees of TD-JEPA continue to hold
unchanged when the auxiliary weights are nonzero.
Setup.
Let ϕ : O →Rdϕ denote the observation encoder, and let Lbase denote the original TD-
JEPA representation objective used in the main method. TwinJEPA optimizes
LTwin = Lbase + λ (αgapLgap + αprefLpref) ,
(6)
where λ, αgap, αpref ≥0.
A retained local action-comparison sample is written as ζ = (oanc, aA, aB, ∆r, y), where oanc is
the anchor observation used by the auxiliary heads, aA and aB are the compared actions, ∆r ∈R≥0
is the selected reward-gap magnitude, and y ∈{0, 1} is the associated preference label. Let Ppair
denote the resulting pair distribution and define Z = ϕ(oanc).
The analysis below treats Ppair as fixed. Thus, it characterizes the supervision induced by a given
pair-mining procedure rather than the statistical quality of the mining procedure itself.
Under the implemented auxiliary-head interfaces, the reward-gap predictor uses Z, whereas the
preference predictor additionally receives the two compared actions. The corresponding population
objectives are
Lgap = Eζ∼Ppair
h
(gθ(Z) −∆r)2i
,
(7)
Lpref = Eζ∼Ppair [−log pθ (y | Z, aA, aB)] .
(8)
Assumption 1 (Goal-conditioned reward family). Let {rk}K
k=1 denote the finite family of goal-
conditioned reward functions used by the relabeling rule that constructs the comparison targets.
Consider two transitions A and B with next physical states x′
A and x′
B and actions aA and aB. For
each goal k, define the signed reward contrast
δrk = rk(x′
A, aA) −rk(x′
B, aB).
(9)
The selected goal index is
k⋆= min

k ∈{1, . . . , K} : |δrk| =
max
j∈{1,...,K} |δrj|

,
(10)
where the minimum index provides a deterministic tie-breaking convention.
Define the selected signed contrast δr⋆= δrk⋆. Consistent with the main method, the pair targets
are
∆r = |δr⋆|,
y = 1 {δr⋆< 0} .
(11)
Thus, ∆r records the magnitude of the selected outcome contrast, while y = 0 denotes that transition
A has the larger selected reward and y = 1 denotes that transition B has the larger selected reward.


Assumption 2 (Validity of retained local comparisons). Every retained pair satisfies the local
observation-matching rule used by the pair miner together with ∥aA −aB∥2 ≥εa,
∆r ≥εr,
for εa > 0 and εr > 0.
Let Mτ(oA, oB) = 1 denote that the two observations satisfy the corresponding local matching
rule. The retained pairs therefore satisfy Mτ(oA, oB) = 1.
For the AntMaze state experiments, this rule is implemented by b(o) = round

q(o)
τobs

, where q(o)
contains the first db = 2 positional coordinates and a pair is eligible only when b(oA) = b(oB).
The reported AntMaze configuration uses τobs = 0.3, εa = 0.01, and εr = 10−6.
Proposition 1 (Consistency of the auxiliary targets). Under Assumptions 1 and 2,
∆r = |δr⋆| > 0,
y = 0 ⇐⇒δr⋆> 0 ⇐⇒rk⋆(x′
A, aA) > rk⋆(x′
B, aB),
y = 1 ⇐⇒δr⋆< 0 ⇐⇒rk⋆(x′
A, aA) < rk⋆(x′
B, aB).
(12)
Moreover, k⋆maximizes the absolute one-step reward contrast over the candidate reward family.
Thus, reward-gap regression and preference classification are derived from the same selected signed
contrast δr⋆: ∆r captures its magnitude, whereas y captures its ordering.
Proof sketch. By Assumption 1, ∆r = |δr⋆| and y = 1{δr⋆< 0}. Assumption 2 gives ∆r ≥εr >
0, excluding ties.
If δr⋆> 0, transition A has the larger selected reward and Eq. 11 gives y = 0. If δr⋆< 0, transition
B has the larger selected reward and Eq. 11 gives y = 1. The maximal-contrast property follows
directly from Eq. 10.
Proposition 2 (Exact reduction to TD-JEPA). If λ = 0, or if αgap = αpref = 0, then
LTwin = Lbase.
(13)
Therefore, under either condition, TwinJEPA reduces exactly to the original TD-JEPA representation
objective.
Proof sketch. If λ = 0, the auxiliary term in Eq. 6 vanishes. If αgap = αpref = 0, the weighted
auxiliary loss is zero for any λ. Eq. 13 follows immediately.
Consequently, any TD-JEPA result that holds under the assumptions of the original objective also
applies to this exact-reduction case. In particular, the theoretical results established for TD-JEPA in
its idealized analysis apply when the TwinJEPA auxiliary contribution is disabled (Bagatella et al.,
2025). This statement does not extend those guarantees to nonzero auxiliary weights.
Proposition 3 (Reward-gap magnitude Bayes risk). Let Z = ϕ(oanc) and assume E[(∆r)2] < ∞.
Among all measurable predictors g : Rdϕ →R, the population reward-gap risk is minimized by
g⋆(Z) = E [∆r | Z] .
(14)
Furthermore,
inf
g Lgap(g) = E [Var (∆r | Z)] .
(15)
Thus, the minimum reward-gap risk is zero if and only if ∆r is almost surely determined by Z under
Ppair.
Proof. Define m(Z) = E [∆r | Z] . For any measurable predictor g, g(Z) −∆r = g(Z) −m(Z) +
m(Z) −∆r. Expanding the squared error and taking expectations gives
Lgap(g) = E
h
(g(Z) −m(Z))2i
+ E
h
(m(Z) −∆r)2i
+ 2 E [(g(Z) −m(Z)) (m(Z) −∆r)] .
(16)


The cross term is zero because E [m(Z) −∆r | Z] = 0. Moreover, E
h
(m(Z) −∆r)2i
=
E [Var (∆r | Z)] .
Therefore,
Lgap(g) = E
h
(g(Z) −m(Z))2i
+ E [Var (∆r | Z)] .
(17)
The first term is nonnegative and vanishes when g(Z) = m(Z) almost surely, proving Eq. 14 and
15. The minimum risk equals zero precisely when Var(∆r | Z) = 0 almost surely.
Proposition 3 provides a representation-level interpretation of the implemented state-only reward-
gap head. For a fixed pair distribution, variation in reward-gap magnitude that cannot be predicted
from Z contributes to the irreducible squared-error term. Lowering this risk therefore requires Z to
preserve information predictive of the local outcome-contrast magnitudes represented in Ppair. The
proposition does not require all reward-relevant information in the environment to be encoded.
Proposition 4 (Affine reward-gap specialization). Let Z =

Z
1

, and consider the affine predictor
gw(Z) = w⊤Z. Assume E[∥Z∥2
2] < ∞and that ΣZ = E
h
Z Z
⊤i
is invertible. Then the population
least-squares minimizer is
w⋆= Σ−1
Z E

Z ∆r

,
(18)
and the corresponding minimum risk is
min
w Lgap(w) = E

(∆r)2
−E

Z ∆r
⊤Σ−1
Z E

Z ∆r

.
(19)
In particular, this affine-head risk is zero if and only if ∆r = w⊤Z almost surely for some w.
Proof sketch. Expanding the population objective gives Lgap(w) = E

(∆r)2
−2w⊤E

Z ∆r

+
w⊤ΣZw. Differentiating with respect to w gives ΣZw⋆= E

Z ∆r

. Invertibility of ΣZ yields
Eq. 18. Substitution gives Eq. 19. The minimum risk is zero exactly when the affine least-squares
residual vanishes almost surely.
Proposition 5 (Preference classification and local ranking). Suppose the preference classifier is
parameterized by a scalar logit fθ satisfying
pθ (y = 0 | Z, aA, aB) = σ (fθ(Z, aA, aB)) ,
(20)
where σ(t) = (1 + exp(−t))−1. Define t = 1 −2y ∈{−1, 1}, so that, by Proposition 1, t =
sign(δr⋆). The local ranking error on the mined pair distribution is
Erank(θ) = Pζ∼Ppair [t fθ(Z, aA, aB) ≤0] .
(21)
Then
Erank(θ) ≤Lpref(θ)
log 2
.
(22)
Consequently, Lpref(θ) →0 implies Erank(θ) →0 on Ppair.
Proof. Under Eq. 20, the per-sample binary cross-entropy is
ℓpref = log (1 + exp (−tfθ(Z, aA, aB))) .
(23)
A ranking error occurs when tfθ(Z, aA, aB) ≤0. On this event, exp (−tfθ(Z, aA, aB)) ≥1, and
therefore ℓpref ≥log 2.
Hence ℓpref ≥log 2 1 {tfθ(Z, aA, aB) ≤0} . Taking expectations over Ppair gives Lpref(θ) ≥
log 2 Erank(θ), which proves Eq. 22.


Proposition 5 gives a direct interpretation of the preference-classification objective on the retained
comparison distribution. Low cross-entropy constrains the probability that the learned scorer re-
verses the reward-induced ordering of a sampled action pair. The result concerns ranking on Ppair
and does not imply correct ordering for arbitrary states, actions, or goals outside that distribution.
Remark 1 (Interpretation and scope). Propositions 1–5 characterize the additional supervision in-
troduced by TwinJEPA. Reward-gap regression promotes decodability of the magnitudes of local
outcome contrasts in the mined comparison distribution, whereas preference classification directly
penalizes incorrect ordering of the compared actions. The two objectives are derived from the same
selected signed contrast δr⋆but use complementary information: ∆r = |δr⋆| captures magnitude,
while y captures ordering. They are therefore related but not mathematically interchangeable. The
theory motivates these distinct roles without implying that their combination must outperform either
component in every domain. This distinction is consistent with the component ablations reported in
the main paper.
Proposition 2 transfers the theoretical properties of TD-JEPA only in the exact-reduction case where
the auxiliary contribution is zero. For nonzero auxiliary weights, TwinJEPA optimizes a different
joint objective, and the analysis above does not establish preservation of TD-JEPA’s original down-
stream guarantees.
The conclusions are also conditional on the pair distribution Ppair. Changing the local matching rule,
reward relabeling procedure, action threshold, or reward-gap threshold changes this distribution and
therefore the supervision characterized by the propositions. The theory does not establish that any
particular pair-mining rule is optimal.
Accordingly, the practical effect of TwinJEPA can depend on offline-data coverage, the informa-
tiveness of the mined comparisons, their alignment with the downstream objective, and the relative
weighting of the auxiliary losses. These factors are examined empirically through the task-level,
component, weight-sensitivity, and cross-domain analyses rather than treated as consequences of
the theoretical results above.
J
SUMMARY OF ADDITIONAL RESULTS
The additional experiments complement the main evaluation along several dimensions, including
task-level heterogeneity, auxiliary-objective contributions, cross-domain transfer, optimization sen-
sitivity, and observation modality. Together with the theoretical analysis in Section I, these re-
sults support a deliberately limited interpretation. TwinJEPA introduces supervision that promotes
reward-gap decodability and reward-consistent local action ranking on the mined comparison distri-
bution, while the downstream effect of this supervision varies with the task, domain, optimization
configuration, and comparison distribution.
The observed effects are heterogeneous across tasks.
The AntMaze decomposition shows that
TwinJEPA does not produce a uniform increase across all evaluation goals. Under the shared Fixed-
HP protocol, the AntMaze-4 mean changes from 50.1% to 52.4% (∆+2.3), with non-negative mean
differences on all four evaluated domains. At the task level, however, positive and negative differ-
ences coexist. For example, medium-navigate Task 3 improves by 17 percentage points, whereas
several other goals change little or decrease.
The same type of heterogeneity appears in the continuous-control domains. On Walker, the larger
positive differences occur on stand and run, while walk and spin change little. On Cheetah,
the largest differences occur on the forward walk and run tasks, while walk backward is nearly
unchanged. Quadruped differs in that all four evaluated objectives have positive mean differences,
although their magnitudes vary substantially. These patterns are descriptively consistent with larger
gains occurring on some tasks that retain substantial performance headroom, but the experiments do
not establish headroom as the causal mechanism. Offline coverage, reward structure, optimization
dynamics, and the informativeness of the mined comparison pairs may all contribute to the observed
task-level differences.
The auxiliary objectives provide distinct and domain-dependent supervision.
The component
ablations show that reward-gap regression and preference classification are not interchangeable. On
AntMaze medium-navigate, preference-only has the highest mean among the evaluated component


variants, whereas on medium-stitch gap-only performs better. On Cheetah, the five-seed ablation
subset gives mean returns of 671.4 for Full TwinJEPA, 654.5 for Gap-only, and 629.8 for Pref-only.
On Quadruped, Full TwinJEPA reaches 599.8, compared with 554.4 for Gap-only and 548.4 for
Pref-only.
These results do not imply a universal synergy between the two losses. Instead, they show that
their relative contributions depend on the domain and the evaluated configuration. This empirical
behavior is consistent with the theoretical distinction in Section I. Reward-gap regression uses the
magnitude of the selected reward contrast, whereas preference classification supervises only its in-
duced ordering. The two targets are constructed from the same local comparison but emphasize
different information.
The auxiliary weight also affects the observed result. AntMaze, Cheetah, and Quadruped sensitivity
analyses show that changing λ can alter the magnitude of the downstream effect. We therefore retain
λ = 0.1 as a shared evaluation configuration rather than interpreting it as a per-domain optimum.
The effect transfers beyond the primary AntMaze benchmark.
The continuous-control evalu-
ations provide evidence that the TwinJEPA objective is not restricted to the AntMaze setting. Under
the shared Fixed-HP protocol, Walker changes from 774.3 to 782.7 (∆+8.4), Cheetah from 638.0
to 671.7 (∆+33.7), and Quadruped from 559.4 to 599.8 (∆+40.4).
These mean effects should be interpreted together with their matched-seed uncertainty. The paired
analyses in the main paper show substantial uncertainty for Walker and Cheetah, while Quadruped
has positive differences on all five matched seeds. Because the Quadruped comparison contains
only five seeds, the exact two-sided test has limited resolution, and we therefore emphasize effect
magnitude and directional consistency rather than a binary significance claim.
The cross-domain results are consequently most useful as evidence that the same comparative ob-
jective can be applied across different control morphologies and reward structures, while the size
and consistency of the result remain domain dependent.
Maze2D provides a boundary-case navigation evaluation.
Maze2D removes the high-
dimensional locomotion dynamics of AntMaze and provides a simpler planar navigation setting.
Under the shared Fixed-HP configuration, the five-task mean success rate changes from 9.2% to
14.4% (∆+5.2). T1 and T2 remain at zero success for both methods, while T3, T4, and T5 show
positive differences of 12, 6, and 8 percentage points, respectively.
We interpret this result conservatively. It shows that the auxiliary objective can produce a positive
mean difference in a simplified navigation setting, but it does not show that all goals benefit or that
the auxiliary losses resolve failures on tasks where both methods remain unsuccessful. Maze2D
therefore serves as an additional boundary case rather than as a central performance claim.
Pixel observations provide an additional modality extension.
The pixel experiments evaluate
the same comparative objective when the agent receives cached RGB frame stacks instead of propri-
oceptive state vectors. The primary domain-level comparisons yield differences of +25.3 on Walker,
−8.5 on the complete ten-seed Cheetah comparison, and +5.6 on Quadruped. The unweighted av-
erage of the three domain means changes from 685.5 to 693.0, although this aggregate is descriptive
because the domains use different numbers of matched seeds.
Cheetah is particularly sensitive to seed composition. The complete ten-seed comparison favors
TD-JEPA, whereas the fixed random five-seed diagnostic favors TwinJEPA by +4.3. We therefore
do not use the pixel experiments to claim modality-independent performance improvement. Their
main role is to show that the same training objective can be applied to visual observations while
preserving the domain- and seed-dependent behavior seen elsewhere in the evaluation.
Overall interpretation.
The extended evaluation supports a narrower conclusion than uniform
superiority across benchmarks. TwinJEPA augments temporal predictive representation learning
with two forms of supervision derived from locally matched action comparisons. The theoretical
analysis shows what these objectives encourage on the mined pair distribution, while the experiments
show that their downstream effects are heterogeneous.


Positive mean differences appear across the primary AntMaze evaluation and several continuous-
control settings, but neither the task-level effects nor the component contributions are uniform. Some
tasks regress, some auxiliary variants outperform the full objective, the magnitude of the result
changes with λ, and the pixel Cheetah comparison is sensitive to seed composition.
Taken together, these results support the claim that local reward-gap and preference supervision
can provide useful information beyond transition-wise temporal prediction in some offline goal-
conditioned control settings. They do not establish that the supervision is universally beneficial, that
the full objective is always preferable to its individual components, or that the theoretical properties
of TD-JEPA are preserved unchanged at nonzero auxiliary weights. The empirical results are there-
fore best understood as characterizing where and under what evaluated conditions the additional
local-comparison supervision is useful.
Limitations and future directions.
The effectiveness of TwinJEPA depends on the quality and
coverage of the mined local comparison distribution. The current implementation uses fixed pair-
construction rules and benchmark-specific neighborhood parameters, which may not identify the
most informative comparisons across all domains. Future work will investigate more adaptive pair
construction strategies, automatic selection of informative comparison neighborhoods, and broader
evaluation across diverse offline-control and embodied-learning settings.
